this process, however, afforded me no means of ascertaining the dimensions of my dungeon; as i might make its circuit, and return to the point whence i set out, without being aware of the fact; so perfectly uniform seemed the wall .
in his left hand was a gold snuff box, from which, as he capered down the hill, cutting all manner of fantastic steps, he took snuff incessantly with an air of the greatest possible self satisfaction .
the astronomer, perhaps, at this point, took refuge in the suggestion of non luminosity; and here analogy was suddenly let fall .
the surcingle hung in ribands from my body .
i knew that you could not say to yourself   'stereotomy' without being brought to think of atomies, and thus of the theories of epicurus; and since, when we discussed this subject not very long ago, i mentioned to you how singularly, yet with how little notice, the vague guesses of that noble greek had met with confirmation in the late nebular cosmogony, i felt that you could not avoid casting your eyes upward to the great nebula in orion, and i certainly expected that you would do so .
here we barricaded ourselves, and, for the present were secure .
but a glance will show the fallacy of this idea .
to these speeches they gave, of course, their own interpretation; fancying, no doubt, that at all events i should come into possession of vast quantities of ready money; and provided i paid them all i owed, and a trifle more, in consideration of their services, i dare say they cared very little what became of either my soul or my carcass .
i even went so far as to speak of a slightly hectic cough with which, at one time, i had been troubled of a chronic rheumatism of a twinge of hereditary gout and, in conclusion, of the disagreeable and inconvenient, but hitherto carefully concealed, weakness of my eyes .
now the net work was not permanently fastened to the hoop, but attached by a series of running loops or nooses .
on every hand was a wilderness of balconies, of verandas, of minarets, of shrines, and fantastically carved oriels .
with how deep a spirit of wonder and perplexity was i wont to regard him from our remote pew in the gallery, as, with step solemn and slow, he ascended the pulpit this reverend man, with countenance so demurely benign, with robes so glossy and so clerically flowing, with wig so minutely powdered, so rigid and so vast, could this be he who, of late, with sour visage, and in snuffy habiliments, administered, ferule in hand, the draconian laws of the academy?
these bizarre attempts at explanation were followed by others equally bizarre .
for many prodigies and signs had taken place, and far and wide, over sea and land, the black wings of the pestilence were spread abroad .
all that as yet can fairly be said to be known is, that    'pure gold can be made at will, and very readily from lead in connection with certain other substances, in kind and in proportions, unknown  .' speculation, of course, is busy as to the immediate and ultimate results of this discovery a discovery which few thinking persons will hesitate in referring to an increased interest in the matter of gold generally, by the late developments in california; and this reflection brings us inevitably to another the exceeding inopportuneness of von kempelen's analysis.
i seemed to be upon the verge of comprehension without power to comprehend men, at times, find themselves upon the brink of remembrance without being able, in the end, to remember .
meantime the whole paradise of arnheim bursts upon the view .
  ''the present peculiar condition of affairs at court, and especially of those intrigues in which d is known to be involved, would render the instant availability of the document its susceptibility of being produced at a moment's notice a point of nearly equal importance with its possession . ''
it is not to be supposed, however, that the great underduk suffered this impertinence on the part of the little old man to pass off with impunity .
i need not tell you how sceptical i have hitherto been on the topic of the soul 's immortality .
presently the murmur of water fell gently upon my ear and in a few moments afterward, as i turned with the road somewhat more abruptly than hitherto, i became aware that a building of some kind lay at the foot of a gentle declivity just before me .
ellison was remarkable in the continuous profusion of good gifts lavished upon him by fortune .
i still continued in the plane of the elipse, but made little progress to the eastward .
mein gott do you take me vor a shicken? ''  ''no oh no '' i replied, much alarmed,  ''you are no chicken certainly not . ''
the state rooms were sufficiently roomy, and each had two berths, one above the other .
we suffered no little from cold, and the dampness of the atmosphere was most unpleasant; but the ample space in the car enabled us to lie down, and by means of cloaks and a few blankets, we did sufficiently well .
this gentleman was clothed from head to foot in a richly embroidered black silk velvet pall, wrapped negligently around his form after the fashion of a spanish cloak .
the pigeons appeared distressed in the extreme, and struggled to escape; while the cat mewed piteously, and, with her tongue hanging out of her mouth, staggered to and fro in the car as if under the influence of poison .
i panted i gasped for breath there could be no doubt of the design of my tormentors oh most unrelenting oh most demoniac of men i shrank from the glowing metal to the centre of the cell .
with great difficulty i gained my feet, and looking dizzily around, was, at first, struck with the idea of our being among breakers; so terrific, beyond the wildest imagination, was the whirlpool of mountainous and foaming ocean within which we were engulfed .
how this celebrated magazine can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses, is more than we can understand .
 ''but could not the cavity be detected by sounding? ''
the lips were of the usual marble pallor .
 ''that is absolutely needless, '' replied g  .
i say  ''thing '' be it observed for they tell me the latin for it is rem .
the pupils, too, upon any accession or diminution of light, underwent contraction or dilation, just such as is observed in the feline tribe .
 ''keep up the largest branch the one on this side, '' said legrand .
and quivering awhile among the draperies of the room, it at length rested in full view upon the surface of the door of brass .
matters had now assumed a really serious aspect, and i resolved to call at once upon my particular friend, mr  . theodore sinivate; for i knew that here at least i should get something like definite information.
the system had its disadvantages, and even its dangers .
 ''but, my dear fellow, you are joking then, '' said i,  ''this is a very passable skull indeed, i may say that it is a very excellent skull, according to the vulgar notions about such specimens of physiology and your scarabæus must be the queerest scarabæus in the world if it resembles it .
the ideas of my friend may be summed up in a few words .
i believe i shall be forced to call them both out .
yet all these appearances have been given i beg pardon will be given by the learned of future ages, to the ashimah of the syrians .
 ''i believe, sir, you have forgotten to pay for your brandy and water . ''
there was no advertisement of the picking up of this boat .
  ''but that kidd's accumulations were immense, is well known .
and from their high summits, one by one, drop everlasting dews .
it is indeed demonstrable that every such impulse given the air, must, in the end, impress every individual thing that exists within the universe; and the being of infinite understanding the being whom we have imagined might trace the remote undulations of the impulse trace them upward and onward in their influences upon all particles of an matter upward and onward for ever in their modifications of old forms or, in other words, in their creation of new until he found them reflected unimpressive at last back from the throne of the godhead .
it will be remembered, that, in the earliest stage of my speculations upon the possibility of a passage to the moon, the existence, in its vicinity, of an atmosphere, dense in proportion to the bulk of the planet, had entered largely into my calculations; this too in spite of many theories to the contrary, and, it may be added, in spite of a general disbelief in the existence of any lunar atmosphere at all .
a bear once, attempting to swim from lofoden to moskoe, was caught by the stream and borne down, while he roared terribly, so as to be heard on shore .
murderers, casting it in, would not have failed to attach a weight .
  ''pierre moreau, tobacconist, deposes that he has been in the habit of selling small quantities of tobacco and snuff to madame l'espanaye for nearly four years .
i still quickened my pace .
it was in the spirit of this wisdom that, among the ancient hebrews, it was believed the gates of heaven would be inevitably opened to that sinner, or saint, who, with good lungs and implicit confidence, should vociferate the word  ''amen '' it was in the spirit of this wisdom that, when a great plague raged at athens, and every means had been in vain attempted for its removal, epimenides, as laertius relates, in his second book, of that philosopher, advised the erection of a shrine and temple  ''to the proper god  . '' lyttleton barry.
i feel confident he never would have dreamed of taking up his residence in alexander the great o nopolis had he been aware that, in alexander the great o nopolis, there lived a gentleman named john smith if i rightly remember, who for many years had there quietly grown fat in editing and publishing the   'alexander the great o nopolis gazette .'
the longer i meditated upon these the more intense grew the interest which had been excited within me .
to add to our dilemma, we found the pumps choked and nearly useless .
by these means for they were ignorant men i found little difficulty in gaining them over to my purpose .
for three months a night has not passed, during the greater part of which i have not been engaged, personally, in ransacking the d hotel .
never imposing upon any one myself, i suffered no one to play the possum with me .
his supposition was that  ''a well taught boy very thin and tall of his age sufficiently so that he could be concealed in a drawer almost immediately under the chess board '' played the game of chess and effected all the evolutions of the automaton .
interspersed about the room, crossing and recrossing in endless irregularity, were innumerable benches and desks, black, ancient, and time worn, piled desperately with much bethumbed books, and so beseamed with initial letters, names at full length, grotesque figures, and other multiplied efforts of the knife, as to have entirely lost what little of original form might have been their portion in days long departed .
but these absurdities i must not pause to detail .
scarcely had we recovered our senses, before the foretopsail went into shreds, when we got up a storm stay sail and with this did pretty well for some hours, the ship heading the sea much more steadily than before .
the lower portion of the other is hidden from view by the head of the unwieldy bedstead which is thrust close up against it .
 ''at a quarter past eight, being no longer able to draw breath without the most intolerable pain, i proceeded forthwith to adjust around the car the apparatus belonging to the condenser .
 ''ha ha ha '' said that gentleman  ''he he he hi hi hi ho ho ho hu hu hu hu very good indeed you must not be astonished, mon ami; our friend here is a wit a drole you must not understand him to the letter . ''
it is true that i may not find an opportunity of transmitting it to the world, but i will not fall to make the endeavour .
i repeat that in landscape arrangements, or collocations alone, is the physical nature susceptible of  ''exaltation '' and that, therefore, her susceptibility of improvement at this one point, was a mystery which, hitherto i had been unable to solve .
in the meantime it was folly to grieve, or to think .
perhaps the gradation of his copy rendered it not so readily perceptible; or, more possibly, i owed my security to the master air of the copyist, who, disdaining the letter, which in a painting is all the obtuse can see, gave but the full spirit of his original for my individual contemplation and chagrin .
the prince had provided all the appliances of pleasure .
he comprehended, moreover, the true character, the august aims, the supreme majesty and dignity of the poetic sentiment .
else there is no immortality for man .
i laid the second tier, and the third, and the fourth; and then i heard the furious vibrations of the chain .
i longed for the love which had before filled it to overflowing .
the rigging was found to be ill fitted, and greatly strained; and on the third day of the blow, about five in the afternoon, our mizzen mast, in a heavy lurch to windward, went by the board .
a closer scrutiny, however, satisfied me that it was intended for a kid  . ''  ''ha ha '' said i,  ''to be sure i have no right to laugh at you a million and a half of money is too serious a matter for mirth but you are not about to establish a third link in your chain you will not find any especial connexion between your pirates and a goat pirates, you know, have nothing to do with goats; they appertain to the farming interest. ''
it is no cause for wonder, surely, that even a gang of blackguards should make haste to get home, when a wide river is to be crossed in small boats, when storm impends, and when night approaches .
the connexion of the two events had about it so much of the palpable, that the true wonder would have been a failure of the populace to appreciate and to seize it .
i assured my patron that, if this was all, i was perfectly resigned to the task of playing thomas hawk .
a large bruise was discovered upon the pit of the stomach, produced, apparently, by the pressure of a knee .
mem he 'll answer, too .
let a composition be defective, let an emendation be wrought in its mere arrangement of form; let this emendation be submitted to every artist in the world; by each will its necessity be admitted .
the hangman, however, adjusted the noose about my neck .
the boat, however, must not be detained .
we started about four o 'clock legrand, jupiter, the dog, and myself .
in this particular instance, it will be understood as most probable, that she proceeded upon a route of more than average diversity from her accustomed ones .
having noticed these particulars, and some others, i again turned my eyes upon the glorious prospect below, and soon became absorbed in contemplation .
many of the vessels fired signal guns; and in all we were saluted with loud cheers which we heard with surprising distinctness and the waving of caps and handkerchiefs .
the party spread themselves and hurried from room to room .
the latter examined it carefully and deposited it in his pocket book; then, unlocking an escritoire, took thence a letter and gave it to the prefect .
xh, pxh, pxh, jxhn, dxn   't dx sx yxu've gxt tx gx, yxu knxw, sx gx at xnce, and dxn't gx slxw; fxr nxbxdy xwns yxu here, yxu knxw .
you would have sworn that the writer had been born and brought up in a coffin .
 ''there are a prodigious number of stately palaces . ''
 ''then up with you as soon as possible, for it will soon be too dark to see what we are about . ''
the entire surface of this metallic enclosure was rudely daubed in all the hideous and repulsive devices to which the charnel superstition of the monks has given rise .
 ''mille tonnerres '' ejaculated the prince de grenouille .
as the sailor looked in, the gigantic animal had seized madame l 'espanaye by the hair, which was loose, as she had been combing it, and was flourishing the razor about her face, in imitation of the motions of a barber .
the matter was impossible .
 ''no '' said the baron, turning abruptly toward the speaker,  ''dead say you? ''  ''it is indeed true, my lord; and, to a noble of your name, will be, i imagine, no unwelcome intelligence . ''
at length, one escaping through a sewer, gave freedom to all the rest .
i mean the line perdidit antiquum litera sonum .
in establishing   'the tea pot' he expected to have the field all to himself .
they would have left nothing behind them; for their number would have enabled them to carry all at once .
time, place, and circumstances rendered it a matter beyond question .
they made the special effects, indeed, wrought in the fluid by special impulses, the subject of exact calculation so that it became easy to determine in what precise period an impulse of given extent would engirdle the orb, and impress for ever every atom of the atmosphere circumambient .
 ''o yes; and for this reason i did not despair .
you must be careful and give the thing with a downright improviso air .
there was ferdinand fitz fossillus feltspar .
at the termination of this sentence i started, and for a moment, paused; for it appeared to me although i at once concluded that my excited fancy had deceived me it appeared to me that, from some very remote portion of the mansion, there came, indistinctly, to my ears, what might have been, in its exact similarity of character, the echo but a stifled and dull one certainly of the very cracking and ripping sound which sir launcelot had so particularly described .
from indications afforded by the barometer, we find that, in ascensions from the surface of the earth we have, at the height of , feet, left below us about one thirtieth of the entire mass of atmospheric air, that at , we have ascended through nearly one third; and that at ,, which is not far from the elevation of cotopaxi, we have surmounted one half the material, or, at all events, one half the ponderable, body of air incumbent upon our globe .
i breathed no longer .
existing about the moon .
she of the diminutive head and the gilded hair?
 ''its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it upon earth . ''
there had been nothing like order or arrangement .
accordingly, i was no sooner seated at the card table, with my pretty hostess for a vis à vis, than i propounded those questions the solution of which had become a matter so essential to my peace .
the company followed our example without stint .
i will not pursue these guesses for i have no right to call them more since the shades of reflection upon which they are based are scarcely of sufficient depth to be appreciable by my own intellect, and since i could not pretend to make them intelligible to the understanding of another .
the daughter lay prostrate and motionless; she had swooned .
whenever it fell upon me, my blood ran cold; and so by degrees very gradually i made up my mind to take the life of the old man, and thus rid myself of the eye forever .
upon this occasion we should have been driven out to sea in spite of everything, for the whirlpools threw us round and round so violently, that, at length, we fouled our anchor and dragged it if it had not been that we drifted into one of the innumerable cross currents here to day and gone to morrow which drove us under the lee of flimen, where, by good luck, we brought up .
the perfume in my nostrils died away .
yet she smiled on and still on, uncomplainingly, because she saw that the painter who had high renown took a fervid and burning pleasure in his task, and wrought day and night to depict her who so loved him, yet who grew daily more dispirited and weak .
the sun arose with a sickly yellow lustre, and clambered a very few degrees above the horizon emitting no decisive light .
the weather was cold; and, upon quitting my own room, i had thrown a cloak over my dressing wrapper, putting it off upon reaching the scene of play .
 ''how much was the reward offered, did you say? '' asked dupin .
our conversation was now long, earnest, uninterrupted, and totally unreserved .
moreover, my occupations have been always made to chime in with the ordinary habitudes of my fellowmen .
 ''were i misanthropic, '' he said,  ''such a locale would suit me .
 ''d , '' replied dupin,  ''is a desperate man, and a man of nerve .
 ''upon honor, '' said i  .  ''nose and all? '' she asked.
this had probably been done with the view of arousing me from sleep .
it was at this moment that his eyes, and mine also, fell upon the scrap of parchment, which i then supposed to be paper .
when we reached this tree, legrand turned to jupiter, and asked him if he thought he could climb it .
it is now madness or hypocrisy to doubt .
ingenuity: your diddler is ingenious .
the moon 's distance from the earth is, in round numbers, , miles .
this accident, with the loss of my insurance, and with the more serious loss of my hair, the whole of which had been singed off by the fire, predisposed me to serious impressions, so that, finally, i made up my mind to take a wife .
as these crossed the direct line of my vision they affected me as forms; but upon passing to my side their images impressed me with the idea of shrieks, groans, and other dismal expressions of terror, of horror, or of wo .
so entirely secluded, and in fact inaccessible, except through a series of accidents, is the entrance of the ravine, that it is by no means impossible that i was indeed the first adventurer the very first and sole adventurer who had ever penetrated its recesses .
in ceasing, he departed at once, and as abruptly as he had entered .
we could not understand, that is to say, we could not have understood, had the notion of this primum mobile ever obtruded itself; we could not have understood in what manner it might be made to further the objects of humanity, either temporal or eternal .
the voice, however, still puzzled me no little; but even this apparent mystery was speedily cleared up .
i could now find room to doubt the evidence of my senses; and seldom called up the subject at all but with wonder at extent of human credulity, and a smile at the vivid force of the imagination which i hereditarily possessed .
here, divesting myself of my clothes, for there is no reason why we cannot die as we were born, i threw myself headlong into the current; the sole witness of my fate being a solitary crow that had been seduced into the eating of brandy saturated corn, and so had staggered away from his fellows .
at a wave of my hand my deliverers hurried tumultuously away .
you should have seen me you should .
and, in the midst of all this, the continuous braying of a donkey arose over all .
having thus fathomed, to his satisfaction, the intentions of jehovah, out of these intentions he built his innumerable systems of mind .
in fact, to write upon such a theme it is necessary to have been hanged .
steeped in misery as i am misery, alas only too real i shall be pardoned for seeking relief, however slight and temporary, in the weakness of a few rambling details .
 ''ass '' said the fourth .
this relieves us of all doubt upon the question whether the old lady could have first destroyed the daughter and afterward have committed suicide .
i went down to open it with a light heart, for what had i now to fear?
i reason a priori, and a diddle would be no diddle without a grin .
she spoke no word; and i not for worlds could i have uttered a syllable .
this is somewhat thick, and so are her ankles, but she has a fine pair of green stockings to cover them .
thus mark antony composed a treatise upon getting drunk .
p  . i do not comprehend.
the islands were no longer visible; whether they had passed down the horizon to the southeast, or whether my increasing elevation had left them out of sight, it is impossible to say .
if we discover repetitions of such letters, so arranged, they will most probably represent the word   'the  .' upon inspection, we find no less than seven such arrangements, the characters being;.
we careered round and round for perhaps an hour, flying rather than floating, getting gradually more and more into the middle of the surge, and then nearer and nearer to its horrible inner edge .
at length we pulled away .
but it is not that the corpse was found to have the garters of the missing girl, or found to have her shoes, or her bonnet, or the flowers of her bonnet, or her feet, or a peculiar mark upon the arm, or her general size and appearance it is that the corpse had each, and all collectively .
we lowered it without difficulty, although it was only by a miracle that we prevented it from swamping as it touched the water .
did not proceed up stairs .
, it will be seen at pp  . and , that this illustrious chemist had not only conceived the idea now in question, but had actually made no inconsiderable progress, experimentally, in the very identical analysis now so triumphantly brought to an issue by von kempelen, who although he makes not the slightest allusion to it, is, without doubt i say it unhesitatingly, and can prove it, if required, indebted to the   'diary' for at least the first hint of his own undertaking.
he, valence, knew marie, and could not be mistaken in her identity .
 ''i repeat, then, that i only half felt, and never intellectually believed .
will nobody contrive a more expeditious mode of progress?
this exception was found in the person of a scholar, who, although no relation, bore the same christian and surname as myself; a circumstance, in fact, little remarkable; for, notwithstanding a noble descent, mine was one of those everyday appellations which seem, by prescriptive right, to have been, time out of mind, the common property of the mob .
sir, through our common friend, mr   . p., i have received your note of this evening.
it is indeed early, '' he continued, musingly, as a cherub with a heavy golden hammer made the apartment ring with the first hour after sunrise:  ''it is indeed early but what matters it?
after all, what is it?
this box was three feet and a half long, three feet broad, and two and a half feet deep .
my every motion was undoubtedly watched .
eternal night continued to envelop us, all unrelieved by the phosphoric sea brilliancy to which we had been accustomed in the tropics .
 ''shocking '' said the youth, calmly, and turned quietly into the chateau .
the police have laid bare the floors, the ceilings, and the masonry of the walls, in every direction .
uprearing themselves in tall slender lines of light, they thus remained burning all pallid and motionless; and in the mirror which their lustre formed upon the round table of ebony at which we sat, each of us there assembled beheld the pallor of his own countenance, and the unquiet glare in the downcast eyes of his companions .
if i were awake i should like to die, but now it is no matter .
he supposes that, had this been the case, it might have appeared at the surface on the wednesday, and thinks that only under such circumstances it could so have appeared .
i determined to follow my nose .
within the wall thus exposed by the displacing of the bones, we perceived a still interior recess, in depth about four feet, in width three, in height six or seven .
this extended but little below the elbow .
he had been saying to himself  ''it is nothing but the wind in the chimney it is only a mouse crossing the floor, '' or  ''it is merely a cricket which has made a single chirp . ''
thus it seemed to me evident that my rate of ascent was not only on the increase, but that the progression would have been apparent in a slight degree even had i not discharged the ballast which i did .
a low, continuous murmur, like that arising from a full, but gently flowing river, came to my ears, intermingled with the peculiar hum of multitudinous human voices .
i repeat that the principle here expressed, is incontrovertible; but there may be something even beyond it .
by observing, as i say, the strictest system in all my dealings, and keeping a well regulated set of books, i was enabled to get over many serious difficulties, and, in the end, to establish myself very decently in the profession .
this idea, having once seized upon my fancy, greatly excited it, and i lost myself forthwith in revery .
holding a lighted candle at this door, and shifting the position of the whole machine repeatedly at the same time, a bright light is thrown entirely through the cupboard, which is now clearly seen to be full, completely full, of machinery .
the apartments of the students were converted into so many pot houses, and there was no pot house of them all more famous or more frequented than that of the baron .
valdemar, do you still sleep? ''
by the operation of this spring, the screw is made to revolve with great rapidity, communicating a progressive motion to the whole .
the scent had never for an instant been lost .
throwing the links about his waist, it was but the work of a few seconds to secure it .
it was open wide, wide open and i grew furious as i gazed upon it .
you should have seen how wisely i proceeded with what caution with what foresight with what dissimulation i went to work i was never kinder to the old man than during the whole week before i killed him .
and when did the radiant una ask anything of her monos in vain?
windows there were none .
what other possible reason could there have been for her so blushing?
i could not have been more surprised at the sound of the trump of the archangel .
and here how singularly sounds that word which of old was wont to bring terror to all hearts throwing a mildew upon all pleasures una .
thinking earnestly upon these points, i remained, for an hour perhaps, half sitting, half reclining, with my vision riveted upon the portrait .
upon my word of honor, this was not an unreasonable price for that dickey .
the glare from the enkindled roof illumined its inmost recesses .
the king has ordered some novel spectacle some gladiatorial exhibition at the hippodrome or perhaps the massacre of the scythian prisoners or the conflagration of his new palace or the tearing down of a handsome temple or, indeed, a bonfire of a few jews .
i might as well have attempted to arrest an avalanche down still unceasingly still inevitably down i gasped and struggled at each vibration .
they who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night .
long and earnestly did i continue the investigation: but the contemptible reward of my industry and perseverance proved to be only a set of false teeth, two pair of hips, an eye, and a bundle of billets doux from mr  . windenough to my wife.
after great trouble, occasioned by the intractable ferocity of his captive during the home voyage, he at length succeeded in lodging it safely at his own residence in paris, where, not to attract toward himself the unpleasant curiosity of his neighbors, he kept it carefully secluded, until such time as it should recover from a wound in the foot, received from a splinter on board ship .
nitrogen, on the contrary, was incapable of supporting either animal life or flame .
engaged in researches which absorbed our whole attention, it had been nearly a month since either of us had gone abroad, or received a visiter, or more than glanced at the leading political articles in one of the daily papers .
her lower tones were absolutely miraculous .
 ''on monday, one of the bargemen connected with the revenue service, saw a empty boat floating down the seine .
for example, i bought pen, ink and paper, and put them into furious activity .
who, indeed, among my most abandoned associates, would not rather have disputed the clearest evidence of his senses, than have suspected of such courses, the gay, the frank, the generous william wilson the noblest and most liberal commoner at oxford him whose follies said his parasites were but the follies of youth and unbridled fancy whose errors but inimitable whim whose darkest vice but a careless and dashing extravagance?
hereupon i bethought me of looking immediately before my nose, and there, sure enough, confronting me at the table sat a personage nondescript, although not altogether indescribable .
i dared not make the effort which was to satisfy me of my fate and yet there was something at my heart which whispered me it was sure .
i remember still more distinctly, that while he was pronounced by all parties at first sight  ''the most remarkable man in the world, '' no person made any attempt at accounting for his opinion .
no trees of any magnitude are to be seen .
the sweep of the pendulum had increased in extent by nearly a yard .
after marriage, however, this gentleman neglected, and, perhaps, even more positively ill treated her .
i went so far as to say that i felt assured of her love; while i offered this assurance, and my own intensity of devotion, as two excuses for my otherwise unpardonable conduct .
i had just consummated an unusually hearty dinner, of which the dyspeptic truffe formed not the least important item, and was sitting alone in the dining room, with my feet upon the fender, and at my elbow a small table which i had rolled up to the fire, and upon which were some apologies for dessert, with some miscellaneous bottles of wine, spirit and liqueur .
by and by these are taught to carry parcels of some weight and this weight is gradually increased .
he said little, and that moodily, and with evident effort .
i say that he will never be bodiless .
in the most rugged of wildernesses in the most savage of the scenes of pure nature there is apparent the art of a creator; yet this art is apparent to reflection only; in no respect has it the obvious force of a feeling .
i took him up at last, and threw him to about half a dozen yards from the balloon .
and the question to be solved proceeds, or should proceed, to its final determination, by a succession of unerring steps liable to no change, and subject to no modification .
what said he? some broken sentences i heard .
the bandage lay heavily about the mouth but then might it not be the mouth of the breathing lady of tremaine?
the sophists of the negative school, who, through inability to create, have scoffed at creation, are now found the loudest in applause .
i heard many things in hell .
   ''then there was 'the involuntary experimentalist,' all about a gentleman who got baked in an oven, and came out alive and well, although certainly done to a turn .
 ''gentlemen, '' i said at last, as the party ascended the steps,  ''i delight to have allayed your suspicions .
as the last echo ceased, i stepped into b  's and inquired for talbot .
 ''why it did not seem altogether right to leave the interior blank that would have been insulting .
the first manifestations, although marked, are unequivocal .
but i am detailing a chain of facts and wish not to leave even a possible link imperfect .
in the present instance, had the gold been gone, the fact of its delivery three days before would have formed something more than a coincidence .
  ''c'est à vous à faire, '' said his majesty, cutting .
afterwards, succession runs thus: a o i d h n r s t u y c f g l m w b k p q x z .
but in this existence, i dreamed that i should be at once cognizant of all things, and thus at once be happy in being cognizant of all .
the inhabitants of our side of the moon have, evidently, no darkness at all, so there can be nothing of the  ''extremes '' mentioned .
in the manner of my friend i was at once struck with an incoherence an inconsistency; and i soon found this to arise from a series of feeble and futile struggles to overcome an habitual trepidancy an excessive nervous agitation .
not a speck on their surface not a shade on their enamel not an indenture in their edges but what that period of her smile had sufficed to brand in upon my memory .
above all was the sense of hearing acute .
we may be instructed to build an odyssey, but it is in vain that we are told how to conceive a           'tempest,' an 'inferno,' a 'prometheus bound,' a 'nightingale,' such as that of keats, or the 'sensitive plant' of  .
  'oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, is entirely devoid of imagination and imagination, in our humble opinion, is not only the soul of sy, but also its very heart .
he will tell me  ''  ''luchesi cannot tell amontillado from sherry   . ''  ''and yet some fools will have it that his taste is a match for your own. ''  ''come, let us go. ''  ''whither? ''
dropping of its own accord upon his exit or perhaps purposely closed, it had become fastened by the spring; and it was the retention of this spring which had been mistaken by the police for that of the nail, farther inquiry being thus considered unnecessary .
 ''well, if you must have it so i will take a small reward just to satisfy your scruples .
i did; but the fragile spirit clung to its tenement of clay for many days, for many weeks and irksome months, until my tortured nerves obtained the mastery over my mind, and i grew furious through delay, and, with the heart of a fiend, cursed the days and the hours and the bitter moments, which seemed to lengthen and lengthen as her gentle life declined, like shadows in the dying of the day .
here it is at first difficult to perceive the intention of the reasoner .
to carry out his views, he solicited and obtained the patronage of sir everard bringhurst and mr  . osborne, two gentlemen well known for scientific acquirement, and especially for the interest they have exhibited in the progress of ærostation.
i have little to record, except the fact to me quite a surprising one that, at an elevation equal to that of cotopaxi, i experienced neither very intense cold, nor headache, nor difficulty of breathing; neither, i find, did mr   . mason, nor mr. holland, nor sir everard.
it was nearly dead calm when the voyagers first came in view of the coast, which was immediately recognized by both the seamen, and by mr  . osborne.
my steps were sure, and could afford but a single result .
what was it i paused to think what was it that so unnerved me in the contemplation of the house of usher?
the whole house, with its wings, was constructed of the old fashioned dutch shingles broad, and with unrounded corners .
a change fell upon all things .
it was evident that my considerate friend, il fanatico, had quite forgotten his appointment with myself had forgotten it as soon as it was made .
i therefore undid only a few of these loops at one time, leaving the car suspended by the remainder .
the boundaries which divide life from death are at best shadowy and vague .
no woman could have inflicted the blows with any weapon .
it was, indeed, a tempestuous yet sternly beautiful night, and one wildly singular in its terror and its beauty .
i then took opportunities of conveying by night, to a retired situation east of rotterdam, five iron bound casks, to contain about fifty gallons each, and one of a larger size; six tinned ware tubes, three inches in diameter, properly shaped, and ten feet in length; a quantity of a particular metallic substance, or semi metal, which i shall not name, and a dozen demijohns of a very common acid .
down this new opening the eye cannot penetrate very far; for the stream, accompanied by the wall, still bends to the left, until both are swallowed up by the leaves .
ye gods and what do i behold is that the departed spirit, the shade, the ghost, of my beloved puppy, which i perceive sitting with a grace so melancholy, in the corner?
while he spoke, so profound was the stillness that one might have heard a pin drop upon the floor .
they were loud and quick unequal spoken apparently in fear as well as in anger .
what he said was unintelligible, but words were uttered; the syllabification was distinct .
for about half an hour the conversation ran upon ordinary topics, but at last, we contrived, quite naturally, to give it the following turn: capt .
the writer professes to have translated his work from the english of one mr . d 'avisson davidson?
but, if the contest have proceeded thus far, it is the shadow which prevails, we struggle in vain .
the, or, substituting the natural letters, where known, it reads thus: the tree thr?h the .
had the body been in any respect despoiled?
it had already buried its sharp edge a full inch in my flesh, and my sensations grew indistinct and confused .
no fancy may picture the sublimity which might have been exhibited by a similar phenomenon taking place amid the darkness of the night .
looking around me during a pause in the baron 's discourse of which my readers may gather some faint idea when i say that it bore resemblance to the fervid, chanting, monotonous, yet musical sermonic manner of coleridge, i perceived symptoms of even more than the general interest in the countenance of one of the party .
i replied to the yells of him who clamored .
 ''here, then, we leave, in the very beginning, the groundwork for something more than a mere guess .
it was a good overcoat .
it was demonstrated, that the density of the comet 's nucleus was far less than that of our rarest gas; and the harmless passage of a similar visitor among the satellites of jupiter was a point strongly insisted upon, and which served greatly to allay terror .
 ''true, '' i observed;  ''the paper is clearly then upon the premises .
 ''twas dis eye, massa de lef eye jis as you tell me, '' and here it was his right eye that the negro indicated .
blew it, and tried again no go .
 ''how died he? ''  ''in his rash exertions to rescue a favorite portion of his hunting stud, he has himself perished miserably in the flames . ''
    'the things had all evidently been there,' he says, 'at least, three or four weeks, and there can be no doubt that the spot of this appalling outrage has been discovered .'
the diddler approaches the bar of a tavern, and demands a couple of twists of tobacco .
has lived in paris two years .
i did so, but to little purpose, not being able to gather the least particle of meaning .
we went up stairs into the chamber where the body of mademoiselle l 'espanaye had been found, and where both the deceased still lay .
a vulgar man that sometimes but he 's deep .
during this period, i became aware, for the first time, of the origin of the sulphurous light which illumined the cell .
in relation to the second it is only necessary to repeat what we have before stated, that the machine is rolled about on castors, and will, at the request of a spectator, be moved to and fro to any portion of the room, even during the progress of a game .
but i had no bodily, no visible, audible, or palpable presence .
fallen houses choked up the streets .
a line of marston  's  ''malcontent '' death's a good fellow and keeps open house struck me at that moment as a palpable lie .
we occasioned the greatest excitement on board all an excitement greatly relished by ourselves, and especially by our two men, who, now under the influence of a dram of geneva, seemed resolved to give all scruple, or fear, to the wind .
 ''it was night, and the rain fell; and falling, it was rain, but, having fallen, it was blood .
the eyes roll unnaturally in the head, without any corresponding motions of the lids or brows .
   ''looking now, narrowly, through the cipher for combinations of known characters, we find, not very far from the beginning, this arrangement, , or egree, which, plainly, is the conclusion of the word 'degree,' and gives us another letter, d, represented by  .
all other matters and all different interests became absorbed in their single contemplation .
while i was awake i knew what you meant by  ''spirit, '' but now it seems only a word such for instance as truth, beauty a quality, i mean .
the horse itself, in the foreground of the design, stood motionless and statue like while farther back, its discomfited rider perished by the dagger of a metzengerstein .
this did moderately well for a time; in fact, i was not avaricious, but my dog was .
the effect produced by the firing of a cannon is that of simple vibration .
the natives suspend it by a cord from the ceiling, and enjoy its fragrance for years . '
a gentle breeze, however, now arose, as the sun was about descending; and while i remained standing on the brow of the slope, the fog gradually became dissipated into wreaths, and so floated over the scene .
soon after the departure of the couple, a gang of miscreants made their appearance, behaved boisterously, ate and drank without making payment, followed in the route of the young man and girl, returned to the inn about dusk, and re crossed the river as if in great haste .
the position of the candelabrum displeased me, and outreaching my hand with difficulty, rather than disturb my slumbering valet, i placed it so as to throw its rays more fully upon the book .
her face was exceedingly round, red, and full; and the same peculiarity, or rather want of peculiarity, attached itself to her countenance, which i before mentioned in the case of the president that is to say, only one feature of her face was sufficiently distinguished to need a separate characterization: indeed the acute tarpaulin immediately observed that the same remark might have applied to each individual person of the party; every one of whom seemed to possess a monopoly of some particular portion of physiognomy .
and the bright eyes of eleonora grew brighter at my words; and she sighed as if a deadly burthen had been taken from her breast; and she trembled and very bitterly wept; but she made acceptance of the vow, for what was she but a child?
i contrived, however, to pacify them by promises of payment of all scores in full, as soon as i could bring the present business to a termination .
the external world could take care of itself .
the manipulations of pompey had made, i must confess, a very striking difference in the appearance of the personal man .
mr   . b. merely cuts out and intersperses.
but, in fact, this is a point of minor importance .
they are familiar to the world .
i grew frantically mad, and struggled to force myself upward against the sweep of the fearful scimitar .
m    . st. eustache, the lover and intended husband of marie, who boarded in her mother 's house, deposes that he did not hear of the discovery of the body of his intended until the next morning, when m. beauvais came into his chamber and told him of it.
when his gambols were over, i looked at the paper, and, to speak the truth, found myself not a little puzzled at what my friend had depicted .
while such discussions were going on, their subject gradually approached, growing larger in apparent diameter, and of a more brilliant lustre .
the trees were lithe, mirthful, erect bright, slender, and graceful, of eastern figure and foliage, with bark smooth, glossy, and parti colored .
scarcely less savage was the        ''lollipop, '' which thus discoursed:  ''some individual, who rejoices in the appellation 'oppodeldoc,' to what low uses are the names of the illustrious dead too often applied has enclosed us some fifty or sixty verses commencing after this fashion: achilles' wrath, to greece the direful spring of woes unnumbered, c     ., c., c., c.  '''oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, is respectfully informed that there is not a printer's devil in our office who is not in the daily habit of composing better lines.
they were fearfully they were inconceivably hideous; but out of evil proceeded good; for their very excess wrought in my spirit an inevitable revulsion .
 ''one of the most popular pieces of mechanism which we have seen, is the magician constructed by m  . maillardet, for the purpose of answering certain given questions.
it had lost, in a great measure, the deep tint of blue it had hitherto worn, being now of a grayish white, and of a lustre dazzling to the eye .
the door marked i, it will be remembered, is still open .
it was at rome, during the carnival of , that i attended a masquerade in the palazzo of the neapolitan duke di broglio .
and it was the mournful influence of the unperceived shadow that caused him to feel although he neither saw nor heard to feel the presence of my head within the room .
a bright light then pervades the cupboard, and the body of the man would be discovered if it were there .
should i yield to your entreaties and, i may add, to the pleadings of my own bosom would i not be entitled to demand of you a very a very little boon in return? ''
then all motion, of whatever nature, creates?
the next night, without daring to ask for the rudder, he removes it .
he shrieked once once only .
wild visions, opium engendered, flitted, shadow like, before me .
upon entering, i thrust him furiously from me .
besides, the estates, which were contiguous, had long exercised a rival influence in the affairs of a busy government .
she had been in his employ about a year, when her admirers were thrown info confusion by her sudden disappearance from the shop .
was that a rat i saw skulking into his hole?
razor in hand, and fully lathered, it was sitting before a looking glass, attempting the operation of shaving, in which it had no doubt previously watched its master through the key hole of the closet .
 ''we will resume this question by mere allusion to the revolting details of the surgeon examined at the inquest .
ah let me see let me remember yes; full easily do i call to mind the precise words of the dear promise you made to eugenie last night .
they partook less of transport and more of calm enthusiasm of enthusiastic repose .
and now, too, hearing an incredible popping and fizzing of champagne, i discovered at length, that it proceeded from the person who performed the bottle of that delicate drink during dinner .
the topography throughout, even when professing to accord with blunt 's lunar chart, is entirely at variance with that or any other lunar chart, and even grossly at variance with itself .
 ''vell, monsieur, '' said she, after surveying me, in great apparent astonishment, for some moments  ''vell, monsieur?
nothing could be more magnificent .
it was a very capital system indeed simple neat no trouble at all in fact it was delicious it was . ''
   ''well, then, bobby, my boy you're a fine fellow, aren't you?
the oven, for instance, that was a good hit .
i left at once the employment of messrs  . cut comeagain, and set up in the eye sore line by myself one of the most lucrative, respectable, and independent of the ordinary occupations.
i had imagined that the habitual endurance of the atmospheric pressure at the surface of the earth was the cause, or nearly so, of the pain attending animal existence at a distance above the surface .
the patient, mr  . edward stapleton, had died, apparently of typhus fever, accompanied with some anomalous symptoms which had excited the curiosity of his medical attendants.
on frederick 's lip arose a fiendish expression, as he became aware of the direction which his glance had, without his consciousness, assumed .
this was, in fact, one of his hobbies .
the mountain upon whose top we sit is helseggen, the cloudy .
matters of little moment are rarely consigned to parchment; since, for the mere ordinary purposes of drawing or writing, it is not nearly so well adapted as paper .
nobody but my enemies ever calls me suky snobbs .
of pain there was some little; of pleasure there was much; but of moral pain or pleasure none at all .
 ''but is it not possible, '' i suggested,  ''that although the letter may be in possession of the minister, as it unquestionably is, he may have concealed it elsewhere than upon his own premises? ''
 ''to dream, '' he continued, resuming the tone of his desultory conversation, as he held up to the rich light of a censer one of the magnificent vases  ''to dream has been the business of my life .
is it any wonder, then, that i prize it?
all this time i had never let go of the ring bolt .
i have said that the sole effect of my somewhat childish experiment that of looking down within the tarn had been to deepen the first singular impression .
i reasoned, for example, thus: when i drew the scarabæus, there was no skull apparent upon the parchment .
although no two of the time pieces in the chamber struck the individual seconds accurately together, yet i had no difficulty in holding steadily in mind the tones, and the respective momentary errors of each .
that 's capital that will do for the similes .
i permitted it to do so; occasionally stooping and patting it as i proceeded .
induction, a posteriori, would have brought phrenology to admit, as an innate and primitive principle of human action, a paradoxical something, which we may call perverseness, for want of a more characteristic term .
with the lady in question this portion proved to be the mouth .
a bold diddle is this .
with sentiments of profound respect, your most obedient servant, von jung .
the obtuse instrument was clearly the stone pavement in the yard, upon which the victim had fallen from the window which looked in upon the bed .
in the architecture and embellishments of the chamber, the evident design had been to dazzle and astound .
secondly, having settled it to be god 's will that man should continue his species, we discovered an organ of amativeness, forthwith .
 ''you have your fortune to make, thingum, '' resumed mr  . crab,  ''and that governor of yours is a millstone about your neck.
his servants are by no means numerous .
he again took my arm, and we proceeded .
this slowly became merged in a sense of retirement this again in a consciousness of solitude .
the box did not go into the extra state room .
the thousand injuries of fortunato i had borne as i best could; but when he ventured upon insult, i vowed revenge .
this second sight is very efficient when properly managed .
i now began to experience, at intervals, severe pain in the head, especially about the ears still, however, breathing with tolerable freedom .
in such case i should have commenced with a collation and analysis of the shorter words, and, had a word of a single letter occurred, as is most likely, a or i, for example, i should have considered the solution as assured .
in a very short time he was out of sight, and i have no doubt he reached home in safety .
 ''i suppose you have called about the ourang outang .
it was formed of a single, broad and thick plank of the tulip wood .
here the bank slopes upward from the stream in a very gentle ascent, forming a broad sward of grass of a texture resembling nothing so much as velvet, and of a brilliancy of green which would bear comparison with the tint of the purest emerald .
he measures two points, and, with a grace inimitable, offers his majesty the choice .
in especial, the slightest appearance of mystery of any point i cannot exactly comprehend puts me at once into a pitiable state of agitation .
like many excellent people, he seemed possessed with a spirit of tantalization, which might easily, at a casual glance, have been mistaken for malevolence .
upon the eighth night i was more than usually cautious in opening the door .
their farther intentions were not ascertained; but we can safely promise our readers some additional information either on monday or in the course of the next day, at farthest .
in a few respects they are even unworthy of serious refutation .
leaning upon the arm of the gallant pompey, and attended at a respectable distance by diana, i proceeded down one of the populous and very pleasant streets of the now deserted edina .
the writer spoke of acute bodily illness of a mental disorder which oppressed him and of an earnest desire to see me, as his best, and indeed his only personal friend, with a view of attempting, by the cheerfulness of my society, some alleviation of his malady .
immediately upon detecting this motion, and before the arm itself begins to move, let him withdraw his piece, as if perceiving an error in his manoeuvre .
after much toil i found it .
at length removing carefully his meerschaum from the right to the left corner of his mouth, he condescended to speak .
but hoax, with these sort of people, is, i believe, a general term for all matters above their comprehension .
i walked vigorously faster still faster at length i ran .
it is a fac simile drawing of what has been described in one portion of the testimony as      'dark bruises, and deep indentations of finger nails,' upon the throat of mademoiselle l'espanaye, and in another, by messrs   . dumas and etienne, as a 'series of livid spots, evidently the impression of fingers.'  ''you will perceive, '' continued my friend, spreading out the paper upon the table before us,  ''that this drawing gives the idea of a firm and fixed hold.
an individual has committed the murder .
that nature and its god are two, no man who thinks, will deny .
it must be understood, that neither by word nor deed had i given fortunato cause to doubt my good will .
he won  't do he won't .
it was clear to me that the yea nay manner not to say the gentleness the positive forbearance with which the  ''daddy long legs '' spoke of that pig, the editor of the  ''gad fly '' it was evident to me, i say, that this gentleness of speech could proceed from nothing else than a partiality for the fly whom it was clearly the intention of the  ''daddy long legs '' to elevate into reputation at my expense .
but the language of the evidence speaks of the strip in question as   'found around the neck, fitting loosely, and secured with a hard knot .'
from the covenant of peace, a simile of sorrow?
its faces are large and white, and its hands heavy and black .
 ''you may have heard of one captain kidd .
but this, of course, cannot be done openly .
the rudder of a sail boat would not have been abandoned, without inquiry, by one altogether at ease in heart .
at the principal gate of the palace he encountered three equerries .
as the bell sounded the hour, there came a knocking at the street door .
is he to be told that it is one of the many classes of fungus, of which the most ordinary feature is its upspringing and decadence within twenty four hours?
and even far more than this: in remedy of the defective composition, each insulated member of the fraternity would have suggested the identical emendation .
as i received it, a loud growl was heard, succeeded by a scratching at the door .
you have now suffered all of pain, however, which you will suffer in aidenn .
in this case, granting the personal acquaintances to be equal, the chances would be also equal that an equal number of personal rencounters would be made .
our own opinion is decidedly in favor of this supposition .
he retained, nevertheless, in a very remarkable manner, both his mental power and a certain degree of physical strength .
for these i longed with a phrenzied desire .
persuaded of this, i abandoned myself implicitly to the guidance of my wife, and entered with an unflinching heart into the intricacies of her studies .
about thirty yards east of this tree stood, however, the pride of the valley, and beyond all question the most magnificent tree i have ever seen, unless, perhaps, among the cypresses of the itchiatuckanee .
but, indeed, i knew little of the speculative philosophy of the day .
from the paintings over which his elaborate fancy brooded, and which grew, touch by touch, into vaguenesses at which i shuddered the more thrillingly, because i shuddered knowing not why; from these paintings vivid as their images now are before me i would in vain endeavor to educe more than a small portion which should lie within the compass of merely written words .
a few more imperceptible steps lead us, finally, to the result .
at first, doubting that i was really awake, i entered into a series of tests, which soon convinced me that i really was .
    'it was when the streets were full of people,' says le commerciel, 'that she went out .'
i appreciated the direful change now in operation upon the flesh, and, as the dreamer is sometimes aware of the bodily presence of one who leans over him, so, sweet una, i still dully felt that you sat by my side .
in the multiform of the tree, and in the multicolor of the flower, he recognized the most direct and the most energetic efforts of nature at physical loveliness .
it was not long ere we arrived at the place of destination .
our course for the first four days was, with trifling variations, s    .e. and by s.; and we must have run down the coast of new holland.
presently, from an upper window of this place, there descended an effeminate looking person, by means of a string made of the turbans of his attendants .
on a triangular shelf in each angle of the room stood also a similar vase, varied only as to its lovely contents .
during this interval we had fairly unearthed an oblong chest of wood, which, from its perfect preservation and wonderful hardness, had plainly been subjected to some mineralizing process perhaps that of the bi chloride of mercury .
a bump arose at once on my sinciput, and turned out to be as pretty an organ of order as one shall see on a summer 's day .
the entire area so pundit says was, about eight hundred years ago, densely packed with houses, some of them twenty stories high; land for some most unaccountable reason being considered as especially precious just in this vicinity .
i thus saw in vivid light a picture all unnoticed before .
he has never ascended the summit of a hill .
here i pulled out my watch .
part of the left arm here his voice dropped so as to be heard with difficulty, and all the right, are restorations; and in the coquetry of that right arm lies, i think, the quintessence of all affectation .
he instanced the ecstasies of the fox hunter, and pointed to the tillers of the earth, the only people who, as a class, can be fairly considered happier than others .
the scales were exceedingly hard and glossy, with all the appearance of burnished gold .
a discrepancy of this unnatural kind gave rise, too frequently, alas to a life of unhappiness .
it was that of a female, the most exquisite i had ever beheld .
my own case, however, was very different indeed, and left me no room for any similar idea; for i did not wish to keep awake, but to be aroused from slumber at regular intervals of time .
i know to morrow 's sunday, because  '' smitherton .
by slow degrees, these feelings of disgust and annoyance rose into the bitterness of hatred .
in regard to the hair upon the arm, l 'etoile has been obviously disingenuous .
but i had yet a resource left, in my constitutional audacity .
what is said in respect to the   'detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size, proportion and color,' is a mere vagueness of speech, which may mean much, or little, or nothing, and which guides in no degree .
impossible but let me hasten to the last eventful scene of the drama .
are we forever to be doomed to the thousand inconveniences of the balloon?
here he closed his eyes and placed his hand upon his heart .
and now again all was void .
having reached the door, however, of the burgomaster 's dwelling, the professor ventured to suggest that as the messenger had thought proper to disappear no doubt frightened to death by the savage appearance of the burghers of rotterdam the pardon would be of little use, as no one but a man of the moon would undertake a voyage to so vast a distance .
what result, then, has ensued?
there are some particular passages which affected my imagination in a powerful and extraordinary manner .
madman '' here he sprang furiously to his feet, and shrieked out his syllables, as if in the effort he were giving up his soul  ''madman i tell you that she now stands without the door '' as if in the superhuman energy of his utterance there had been found the potency of a spell the huge antique pannels to which the speaker pointed, threw slowly back, upon the instant, their ponderous and ebony jaws .
c  'est vrai que de toutes ces choses il a pensé beaucoup mais the duc de l'omelette is terror stricken; for, through the lurid vista which a single uncurtained window is affording, lo gleams the most ghastly of all fires le pauvre duc he could not help imagining that the glorious, the voluptuous, the never dying melodies which pervaded that hall, as they passed filtered and transmuted through the alchemy of the enchanted window panes, were the wailings and the howlings of the hopeless and the damned and there, too there upon the ottoman who could he be?
but where, meantime, was the soul?
the latter was undergoing a rapid change, and the water seemed more than usually transparent .
you will remember that one or two of the wise among our forefathers wise in fact, although not in the world 's esteem had ventured to doubt the propriety of the term  ''improvement, '' as applied to the progress of our civilization .
i nevertheless did not think it expedient to attempt getting on my feet immediately; but, having tied up my arm as well as i could, i lay still for about a quarter of an hour .
the hearing, at the same time, although excited in degree, was not irregular in action estimating real sounds with an extravagance of precision, not less than of sensibility .
he, bullet head, would make no alteration in his style, to suit the caprices of any mr  . smith in christendom.
p . can you give me no more precise idea of what you term the unparticled matter?
if the murder had been committed at the barrière du roule, there would have been no necessity for any such arrangement .
p . is not god immaterial?
a closer scrutiny assured me, however, that it was only a small calf roasted whole, and set upon its knees, with an apple in its mouth, as is the english fashion of dressing a hare .
the minister i believe has written learnedly on the differential calculus .
my purpose at present is a very different one indeed .
from these latter attacks i awoke, however, with a gradation slow in proportion to the suddenness of the seizure .
he was exceedingly thin; and might, as his associates asserted, have answered, when drunk, for a pennant at the mast head, or, when sober, have served for a jib boom .
this knowledge, and some of another kind, came afterwards in the course of an eventful five years, during which i have dropped the prejudices of my former humble situation in life, and forgotten the bellows mender in far different occupations .
how very safe, commodious, manageable, and in every respect convenient are our modern balloons here is an immense one approaching us at the rate of at least a hundred and fifty miles an hour .
on all sides save to the west, where the sun was about sinking arose the verdant walls of the forest .
mr  . osborne 's telescope made it out something like  ''atalanta. ''
i say with a sensual delight .
moreover, in one of the walls was a projection, caused by a false chimney, or fireplace, that had been filled up, and made to resemble the red of the cellar .
the destruction was complete .
he had never given me insult .
suddenly these manifestations they ceased, and the world grew dark before mine eyes, and i stood aghast at the burning thoughts which possessed, at the terrible temptations which beset me; for there came from some far, far distant and unknown land, into the gay court of the king i served, a maiden to whose beauty my whole recreant heart yielded at once at whose footstool i bowed down without a struggle, in the most ardent, in the most abject worship of love .
i strained my vision to detect any motion in the corpse but there was not the slightest perceptible .
it is a peculiarity of this material to give houses built of it the appearance of being wider at bottom than at top after the manner of egyptian architecture; and in the present instance, this exceedingly picturesque effect was aided by numerous pots of gorgeous flowers that almost encompassed the base of the buildings .
once again i breathed with perfect freedom and ease and indeed why should i not?
a singular change, too, had come over the heavens .
he heard the footsteps of the crowd overhead, and endeavored to make himself heard in turn .
it was this unfathomable longing of the soul to vex itself to offer violence to its own nature to do wrong for the wrong 's sake only that urged me to continue and finally to consummate the injury i had inflicted upon the unoffending brute .
i felt that i lay upon my back, unbound .
the channel now became a gorge although the term is somewhat inapplicable, and i employ it merely because the language has no word which better represents the most striking not the most distinctive feature of the scene .
there is no accounting for the caprices of madmen; and, in my opinion as well as in that of dr  . tarr and professor fether, it is never safe to permit them to run at large unattended.
it will be understood that i speak of coincidences and no more .
from out the most central recess of this melancholy vaulting, depended, by a single chain of gold with long links, a huge censer of the same metal, saracenic in pattern, and with many perforations so contrived that there writhed in and out of them, as if endued with a serpent vitality, a continual succession of parti colored fires .
 ''but, '' said i,  ''you are quite au fait in these investigations .
v  . yes; and i now see the confusion of idea.
 ''as i felt the sickening sweep of the descent, i had instinctively tightened my hold upon the barrel, and closed my eyes .
i mean the happiness experienced in the contemplation of natural scenery .
your excellencies will bear in mind that distressed circumstances in rotterdam had at length driven me to the resolution of committing suicide .
upon reaching the wharf, i noticed a scythe and three spades, all apparently new, lying in the bottom of the boat in which we were to embark .
in short, the only ingress or egress was through a gate occupying a rocky pass in the road, a few paces below the point at which i stopped to reconnoitre the scene .
hint everything assert nothing .
true method appertains to the ordinary and the obvious alone, and cannot be applied to the outre .
these things she uttered as the shadows of the sweet twilight gathered darkly and more darkly around us and then, with a gentle pressure of her fairy like hand, overthrew, in a single sweet instant, all the argumentative fabric she had reared .
he kissed me and continued:  ''as for the tone heterogeneous, it is merely a judicious mixture, in equal proportions, of all the other tones in the world, and is consequently made up of every thing deep, great, odd, piquant, pertinent, and pretty .
 ''he is your own property, sire, '' replied one of the equerries,  ''at least he is claimed by no other owner .
i thus detail the precise mode in which it came into my possession; for the circumstances impressed me with peculiar force .
but from the disordered chamber of my brain, had not, alas departed, and would not be driven away, the white and ghastly spectrum of the teeth .
the wall did not present the slightest appearance of having been disturbed .
if so, had she any when found?
the boat appeared to be hanging, as if by magic, midway down, upon the interior surface of a funnel vast in circumference, prodigious in depth, and whose perfectly smooth sides might have been mistaken for ebony, but for the bewildering rapidity with which they spun around, and for the gleaming and ghastly radiance they shot forth, as the rays of the full moon, from that circular rift amid the clouds which i have already described, streamed in a flood of golden glory along the black walls, and far away down into the inmost recesses of the abyss .
the words were the singular but simple ones of the poet ebn zaiat:  ''dicebant mihi sodales si sepulchrum amicae visitarem, curas meas aliquantulum fore levatas . ''
this made an end of me; and as for the  ''humdrum, '' the  ''rowdy dow, '' and the  ''lollipop, '' i never could comprehend how they survived it .
 ''vid dis apologie for the maniere, i vill now say dat, helas monsieur simpson ave guess but de too true .
 ''and then, '' said the friend who had whispered,  ''there was boullard, the tee totum .
see the beast has very justly kicked one of the rabble over and another and another and another .
he is remarkably precise, cautious, staid, and deliberate in his demeanor .
this morning, to my great joy, about nine o 'clock, the surface of the moon being frightfully near, and my apprehensions excited to the utmost, the pump of my condenser at length gave evident tokens of an alteration in the atmosphere .
this latter was a remarkably large and beautiful animal, entirely black, and sagacious to an astonishing degree .
mr   . maelzel, to be sure, is not very tall, but upon drawing near the machine, his head will be found at least eighteen inches below the head of the turk, although the latter, it will be remembered, is in a sitting position. .
the corpse of the young lady was much bruised and excoriated .
observing him in these moods, i often dwelt meditatively upon the old philosophy of the bi part soul, and amused myself with the fancy of a double dupin the creative and the resolvent .
through the exertions of beauvais, the matter was industriously hushed up, as far as possible; and several days had elapsed before any public emotion resulted .
 ''and then, '' said a tall man just opposite,  ''we had here, not long ago, a person who had taken it into his head that he was a donkey which allegorically speaking, you will say, was quite true .
they were made to imitate the body of a creeping serpent, and were long and black, with a poisoned barb .
hasn 't he told you what ails him? ''
the truth is, i could not help regarding mrs  . wyatt as a decidedly plain looking woman.
alas its emaciation was excessive, and not one vestige of the former being lurked in any single line of the contour .
when i had waited a long time, very patiently, without hearing him lie down, i resolved to open a little a very, very little crevice in the lantern .
my books, at this epoch, if they did not actually serve to irritate the disorder, partook, it will be perceived, largely, in their imaginative and inconsequential nature, of the characteristic qualities of the disorder itself .
some years ago, i engaged passage from charleston, s  . c, to the city of new york, in the fine packet ship  ''independence, '' captain hardy.
noticing these things, i rode over a short causeway to the house .
in one, a large wicker cylinder with a ring at top, revelled a mocking bird; in another an oriole; in a third the impudent bobolink while three or four more delicate prisons were loudly vocal with canaries .
the old man, i mentioned, was absent in the country .
by slow degrees our sickness and dizziness and horror become merged in a cloud of unnamable feeling .
the only real indication, indeed, of the mesmeric influence, was now found in the vibratory movement of the tongue, whenever i addressed m  . valdemar a question.
and of those who seemed tranquilly to repose, i saw that a vast number had changed, in a greater or less degree, the rigid and uneasy position in which they had originally been entombed .
i think it was his eye yes, it was this he had the eye of a vulture a pale blue eye, with a film over it .
 ''it was not until some time afterward that i recovered myself sufficiently to attend to the ordinary cares of the balloon .
in the glare of noon at the dead hour of night in sickness or in health in calm or in tempest the young metzengerstein seemed rivetted to the saddle of that colossal horse, whose intractable audacities so well accorded with his own spirit .
to repose confidence in the understanding or discretion of a madman, is to gain him body and soul .
another most important office of the guide rope, is to point out the direction of the balloon .
now, without re adverting to the fact that stronger evidence   'to make others believe,' could never have been adduced, it may be remarked that a man may very well be understood to believe, in a case of this kind, without the ability to advance a single reason for the belief of a second party .
having succeeded in inducing me to accompany him, he seemed unwilling to hold conversation upon any topic of minor importance, and to all my questions vouchsafed no other reply than  ''we shall see '' we crossed the creek at the head of the island by means of a skiff; and, ascending the high grounds on the shore of the main land, proceeded in a northwesterly direction, through a tract of country excessively wild and desolate, where no trace of a human footstep was to be seen .
it is still at large .
upon beating the game, he waves his head with an air of triumph, looks round complacently upon the spectators, and drawing his left arm farther back than usual, suffers his fingers alone to rest upon the cushion .
i was never made aware of her entrance into my closed study save by the dear music of her low sweet voice, as she placed her marble hand upon my shoulder .
and then, when my head was well in the room, i undid the lantern cautiously oh, so cautiously cautiously for the hinges creaked i undid it just so much that a single thin ray fell upon the vulture eye .
i found the exactions of the profession somewhat too much for my delicate state of body; and, discovering, at last, that i was knocked all out of shape, so that i didn  't know very well what to make of the matter, and so that my friends, when they met me in the street, couldn't tell that i was peter proffit at all, it occurred to me that the best expedient i could adopt was to alter my line of business .
  ''smith? '' said she,  ''why, not general john a   . b. c.? horrid affair that, wasn't it?
his majesty looked chagrined .
we had now reached the summit of the loftiest crag .
the assassins must have escaped through the other window .
wyatt 's conduct i did not so much regard .
monsieur maillard, to my excessive astonishment threw himself under the side board .
and this was in truth the death of which these bystanders spoke reverently, in low whispers you, sweet una, gaspingly, with loud cries .
the merit suggested is, at best, negative, and appertains to that hobbling criticism which, in letters, would elevate addison into apotheosis .
my opinion of the paragraph is founded principally upon its manner .
the next day 's paper had these additional particulars .
he bears it to the river, but leaves behind him the other evidences of guilt; for it is difficult, if not impossible to carry all the burthen at once, and it will be easy to return for what is left .
 ''three four five six seven eight nine ten '' said the bell .
with my aversion to this cat, however, its partiality for myself seemed to increase .
we glow, we are consumed with eagerness to commence the work, with the anticipation of whose glorious result our whole souls are on fire .
  'snob' is the nom de plume of mr   . thingum bob, of this city, a relative of the great mr. thingum, after whom he is named, and otherwise connected with the most illustrious families of the state.
we now resolved to let off enough gas to bring our guide rope, with the buoys affixed, into the water .
at every movement of the figure machinery is heard in motion .
she had not scorned my proposals .
the next morning it was taken from thence, without the knowledge of any of the officers .
on the memorable occasion of which i speak i was habited in a crimson satin dress, with a sky blue arabian mantelet .
and then she adverted, with a blush, to the extreme recency of this date .
 ''if it is any point requiring reflection, '' observed dupin, as he forebore to enkindle the wick,  ''we shall examine it to better purpose in the dark . ''
but anything was better than this agony anything was more tolerable than this derision i could bear those hypocritical smiles no longer i felt that i must scream or die and now again hark louder louder louder louder  ''villains '' i shrieked,  ''dissemble no more i admit the deed tear up the planks here, here it is the beating of his hideous heart '' by late accounts from rotterdam, that city seems to be in a high state of philosophical excitement .
it was there, beyond a doubt, and immediately beneath my feet; but, alas i had now ascended to so vast a distance, that nothing could with accuracy be discerned .
as we approached the brink of the pit he let go his hold upon this, and made for the ring, from which, in the agony of his terror, he endeavored to force my hands, as it was not large enough to afford us both a secure grasp .
but from a certain nameless awe with which the mad assumptions of the mummer had inspired the whole party, there were found none who put forth hand to seize him; so that, unimpeded, he passed within a yard of the prince 's person; and, while the vast assembly, as if with one impulse, shrank from the centres of the rooms to the walls, he made his way uninterruptedly, but with the same solemn and measured step which had distinguished him from the first, through the blue chamber to the purple through the purple to the green through the green to the orange through this again to the white and even thence to the violet, ere a decided movement had been made to arrest him .
these streaks, at length, spreading out to a great distance, and entering into combination, took unto themselves the gyratory motion of the subsided vortices, and seemed to form the germ of another more vast .
scarcely had he disappeared in the mist before, panting after him, with open mouth and glaring eyes, there darted a huge beast .
to day, looking upward as well as i could, through each of the side windows alternately, i beheld, to my great delight, a very small portion of the moon 's disk protruding, as it were, on all sides beyond the huge circumference of the balloon .
its expanse was relieved merely by three of julien 's exquisite lithographs a trois crayons, fastened to the wall without frames .
yet there have been many and wonderful automata .
i must have been delirious for i even sought amusement in speculating upon the relative velocities of their several descents toward the foam below .
i spoke at length, and perseveringly of my devotion, of my passion of her exceeding beauty, and of my own enthusiastic admiration .
 ''be a little more explicit, '' i said .
 ''morella ''  ''the days have never been when thou couldst love me but her whom in life thou didst abhor, in death thou shalt adore . ''
 ''ninny '' said the fifth .
in this there was much that reminded me of the specious totality of old wood work which has rotted for long years in some neglected vault, with no disturbance from the breath of the external air .
the   'oil of bob' is the title of this masterpiece of eloquence and art .
it was a course of mortification to me, nevertheless, that although i made several attempts at conversation, my powers of speech were so entirely in abeyance, that i could not even open my mouth; much less, then, make reply to some ingenious but fanciful theories of which, under other circumstances, my minute acquaintance with the hippocratian pathology would have afforded me a ready confutation .
his third, and most difficult of realization, was the contempt of ambition .
i see you profit by my advice, and are making the most of your time in inspecting the premises in satisfying your eyes with the memorials and the things of fame that most renown this city .
what would we do without the atalantic telegraph?
he said that some person, apparently in great haste, demanded to speak with me in the hall .
a friend holds one of the diddler 's promises to pay, filled up and signed in due form, upon the ordinary blanks printed in red ink .
how can you? '' interrupted the object of my animadversions, gasping for breath, and tearing off, with a desperate exertion, the bandage around its jaws  ''how can you, mr . lackobreath, be so infernally cruel as to pinch me in that manner by the nose?
here my friend opened his eyes to some extent .
the spot where we discovered the scarabaeus was on the coast of the main land, about a mile eastward of the island, and but a short distance above high water mark .
but then we had been so imprudent as to broach the subject ourselves .
of mademoiselle salle it has been well said,  ''que tous ses pas etaient des sentiments, '' and of berenice i more seriously believed que toutes ses dents etaient des idees .
 ''it is not my present design, '' he said,  ''to dwell upon the first and second of those extracts .
the physical suffering i underwent contributed also to render me nearly incapable of making any exertion for the preservation of my life .
the error here involved a gross error redolent of mischief i cannot pretend to expose within the limits assigned me at present; and with the philosophical it needs no exposure .
a furious delirium possessed all men; and, with arms rigidly outstretched towards the threatening heavens, they trembled and shrieked aloud .
i speak of this point chiefly for the sake of method; for the strength of madame l  'espanaye would have been utterly unequal to the task of thrusting her daughter's corpse up the chimney as it was found; and the nature of the wounds upon her own person entirely preclude the idea of self destruction .
but, of course, the chances are five or six to one, that the finder will repair to the address given by the diddler, rather than to that pointed out by the rightful proprietor .
 ''bless me it is an ape '' true a baboon; but by no means the less a deity .
so far from it, i still lay nearly level with the plane of the horizon; for the change of situation which i had acquired, had forced the bottom of the car considerably outwards from my position, which was accordingly one of the most imminent and deadly peril .
pascal, a philosopher whom we both love, has said, how truly  ''que tout notre raisonnement se rèduit à céder au sentiment; '' and it is not impossible that the sentiment of the natural, had time permitted it, would have regained its old ascendancy over the harsh mathematical reason of the schools .
with his arms folded, and with one bandaged leg deposited upon the table, he seemed to think himself entitled to some consideration .
this i did by removing a small portion of the shifting boards, in such a manner as to afford me a convenient retreat between the huge timbers of the ship .
from what he related, it was clear that he must have been conscious of life for more than an hour, while inhumed, before lapsing into insensibility .
a suggestion to this effect is usually rejected by the intellect at once .
the heart had ceased to beat .
that since he is the most happy must be still the one thing unknown even to him .
fastening one end of this at that point of the trunk, of the tree which was nearest the peg, he unrolled it till it reached the peg, and thence farther unrolled it, in the direction already established by the two points of the tree and the peg, for the distance of fifty feet jupiter clearing away the brambles with the scythe .
we saw it not as an astronomical phenomenon in the heavens, but as an incubus upon our hearts, and a shadow upon our brains .
frequently, too, pausing in the middle of a sentence whose commencement he had apparently forgotten, he seemed to be listening in the deepest attention, as if either in momentary expectation of a visiter, or to sounds which must have had existence in his imagination alone .
 ''you zee, '' said he,  ''it iz te bess vor zit still; and now you shall know who i pe .
and to our chamber there was no entrance save by a lofty door of brass: and the door was fashioned by the artisan corinnos, and, being of rare workmanship, was fastened from within .
and there is an indistinct murmur which cometh out from among them like the rushing of subterrene water .
this effect is brought about by decomposition, or otherwise .
but, heaven bless me what is the matter?
whenever i sat, it would crouch beneath my chair, or spring upon my knees, covering me with its loathsome caresses .
this is the usual effect of such coincidences .
 ''the nitre '' i said:  ''see, it increases .
in the meantime, we had been swept astern of the ship, and being quite out of her lee, were at the mercy of the tremendous sea which was still running .
perhaps the eye of a scrutinizing observer might have discovered a barely perceptible fissure, which, extending from the roof of the building in front, made its way down the wall in a zigzag direction, until it became lost in the sullen waters of the tarn .
it is no longer philosophical to base, upon what has been, a vision of what is to be .
the shutter was kicked open again by the ourang outang as it entered the room .
the first and most obvious inference is, that so strong a light is requisite to enable the man within to see through the transparent material probably fine gauze of which the breast of the turk is composed .
all egress from my chamber, except through a window, was cut off .
let us place the first move in a game of chess, in juxta position with the data of an algebraical question, and their great difference will be immediately perceived .
the true wretchedness, indeed the ultimate woe is particular, not diffuse .
but in that bitter tirade upon chantilly, which appeared in yesterday    's 'musée,' the satirist, making some disgraceful allusions to the cobbler's change of name upon assuming the buskin, quoted a latin line about which we have often conversed .
  ''to be sure, '' said i,  ''to be sure they behave a little odd, eh? they are a little queer, eh? don't you think so? ''  ''odd queer why, do you really think so?
cast by that ruffian, gruff, who made me a present of five dollars .
i dashed the spectacles violently to the ground, and, leaping to my feet, stood erect in the middle of the floor, confronting mrs  . simpson, with my arms set a kimbo, and grinning and foaming, but, at the same time, utterly speechless with terror and with rage.
the sexton departed, and i was left alone .
yet only under such circumstances is it possible to imagine that he would have failed, if alive, in the denouncement of the assassins .
 ''is there no way, then, sir, '' she murmurs,  ''in which i may be permitted to testify my gratitude? ''
the depth in the centre of the moskoe ström must be immeasurably greater; and no better proof of this fact is necessary than can be obtained from even the sidelong glance into the abyss of the whirl which may be had from the highest crag of helseggen .
in the course of our discussion, my young friend took occasion to quote some passages from a writer who has been supposed to have well treated this theme .
 ''the balloon is composed of silk, varnished with the liquid gum caoutchouc .
pardon, agathos, the weakness of a spirit new fledged with immortality agathos .
every now and then one might catch a glimpse of the scoundrel through the smoke .
now, in my case, the versed sine that is to say, the thickness of the segment beneath me was about equal to my elevation, or the elevation of the point of sight above the surface .
nothing to be seen though nothing to be done but flirt, feast and dance in the magnificent saloons .
i said something about the  ''peculiar shape of that box , '' and, as i spoke the words, i smiled knowingly, winked, and touched him gently with my forefinger in the ribs .
it could not be denied that our atmosphere was radically affected; the conformation of this atmosphere and the possible modifications to which it might be subjected, were now the topics of discussion .
the visiter left the city in the early morning .
in the meantime the young gentlemen, one and all, are somewhat less piously inclined than before, while the landlady purchases a shilling 's worth of the indian rubber, and very carefully obliterates the pencil memorandum that some fool has made in her great family bible, on the broad margin of the proverbs of solomon .
 ''you have, of course, an accurate description of the letter? ''
wyatt 's two sisters i knew very well, and most amiable and clever girls they were .
but there are some points in the hungarian superstition which were fast verging to absurdity .
but in death only, was i fully impressed with the strength of her affection .
by long suffering my nerves had been unstrung, until i trembled at the sound of my own voice, and had become in every respect a fitting subject for the species of torture which awaited me .
its banks, of the emerald grass already described, rounded, rather than sloped, off into the clear heaven below; and so clear was this heaven, so perfectly, at times, did it reflect all objects above it, that where the true bank ended and where the mimic one commenced, it was a point of no little difficulty to determine .
here upon earth, at least, philosophy, i am persuaded, will always in vain call upon us to look upon qualities as things .
but this thing was not to be .
no person present even affected to deny, or attempted to repress, the unutterable, shuddering horror which these few words, thus uttered, were so well calculated to convey .
 ''bête '' said the first .
i said the child grew strangely in stature and intelligence .
the people now, dismissing any lingering hope that the astronomers were wrong, experienced all the certainty of evil .
 ''and then, '' said somebody else,  ''then there was petit gaillard, who thought himself a pinch of snuff, and was truly distressed because he could not take himself between his own finger and thumb . ''
a few passes threw mr  . vankirk into the mesmeric sleep.
the automaton plays with his left arm, because under no other circumstances could the man within play with his right a desideratum of course .
i told him i would be tender of his feelings ossi tender que beefsteak .
the first stroke of the razorlike crescent athwart any portion of the band, would so detach it that it might be unwound from my person by means of my left hand .
antiochus the illustrious also            'prince of ts,' 'glory of the east,' 'delight of the universe,' and 'most remarkable of cameleopards' heavens what a power of speed thou art displaying what a capacity for leg bail thou art developing run, prince bravo, epiphanes well done, cameleopard glorious antiochus he runs he leaps he flies like an arrow from a catapult he approaches the hippodrome he leaps he shrieks he is there this is well; for hadst thou, 'glory of the east,' been half a second longer in reaching the gates of the amphitheatre, there is not a bear's cub in epidaphne that would not have had a nibble at thy carcase .
what, in its chrysalis condition of principle, affronted their demure reason, never fails, in its maturity of accomplishment, to extort admiration from their instinct of the beautiful or of the sublime .
this, of course, was a matter briefly and easily ascertained, by noticing the proportion of the pitcher filled in any given time .
 ''our first slide into the abyss itself, from the belt of foam above, had carried us a great distance down the slope; but our farther descent was by no means proportionate .
i am the descendant of a race whose imaginative and easily excitable temperament has at all times rendered them remarkable; and, in my earliest infancy, i gave evidence of having fully inherited the family character .
closet after closet drawer after drawer corner after corner were scrutinized to no purpose .
i had no lack of what the world calls wealth .
the left arm of the figure is bent at the elbow, and in the left hand is a pipe .
i came upon them suddenly in the leafy june, and threw myself upon the turf, beneath the branches of an unknown odorous shrub, that i might doze as i contemplated the scene .
do you hear anything?
 ''no doubt you will think me fanciful but i had already established a kind of connexion .
in height he might have been below rather than above the medium size: although there were moments of intense passion when his frame actually expanded and belied the assertion .
why, my dear sir, that cameleopard is no other than antiochus epiphanes, antiochus the illustrious, king of syria, and the most potent of all the autocrats of the east it is true, that he is entitled, at times, antiochus epimanes antiochus the madman but that is because all people have not the capacity to appreciate his merits .
to say the truth, he has something of more importance than a watch to attend to and what that is, i shall presently explain .
i knew my acquaintance to be wealthy .
at sight of these the joy of jupiter could scarcely be restrained, but the countenance of his master wore an air of extreme disappointment he urged us, however, to continue our exertions, and the words were hardly uttered when i stumbled and fell forward, having caught the toe of my boot in a large ring of iron that lay half buried in the loose earth .
i have been assured that suky is but a vulgar corruption of psyche, which is good greek, and means    ''the soul '' that's me, i'm all soul and sometimes  ''a butterfly, '' which latter meaning undoubtedly alludes to my appearance in my new crimson satin dress, with the sky blue arabian mantelet, and the trimmings of green agraffas, and the seven flounces of orange colored auriculas .
but why is this man absent?
in the present instance they were fully eight inches wide; but their glory was altogether eclipsed by the gorgeous splendor of the profuse blossoms .
jupiter; bring me that scarabæus ''  ''what de bug, massa?
as soon as he fairly settled himself, he commenced an oration, which, no doubt, was a very capital one, if it could only have been heard .
this is partly pleasing to the eye, by the show of order and design, and partly moral .
 ''the revolution which has just been made by the fay, '' continued i, musingly,  ''is the cycle of the brief year of her life .
through hunger and through thirst, i wrote .
she lit up every thing about us with the greatest distinctness but, oh god, what a scene it was to light up  ''i now made one or two attempts to speak to my brother but, in some manner which i could not understand, the din had so increased that i could not make him hear a single word, although i screamed at the top of my voice in his ear .
and at length the period of our nuptials was approaching, when, upon an afternoon in the winter of the year one of those unseasonably warm, calm, and misty days which are the nurse of the beautiful halcyon , i sat, and sat, as i thought, alone, in the inner apartment of the library .
some of our best novelists patronize this tone .
by means of the rudder, the machine was readily turned in any direction .
he tore it, made it fast about the neck, and so dragged his victim to the brink of the river .
you shall conquer, for my sake, this affectation which leads you, as you yourself acknowledge, to the tacit or implied denial of your infirmity of vision .
as he threw it open, a flash of red light, streaming far into the chamber, flung his shadow with a clear outline against the quivering tapestry, and he shuddered to perceive that shadow as he staggered awhile upon the threshold assuming the exact position, and precisely filling up the contour, of the relentless and triumphant murderer of the saracen berlifitzing .
i joined the weaker party, arming myself with the weapons of a fallen officer, and fighting i knew not whom with the nervous ferocity of despair .
groping about the masonry just below the margin, i succeeded in dislodging a small fragment, and let it fall into the abyss .
for good reasons, however, i did my best to give the crowd the worth of their trouble .
the excellent administration of your affairs here is well understood in paris, and i thought it just possible, you know  ''yes, yes say no more or rather it is myself who should thank you for the commendable prudence you have displayed .
yet his reasons have not yet been matured into expression .
at length he approached the huge trunk, walked slowly around it, and examined it with minute attention .
if i did not hit upon the village before sunset, or even before dark, it was more than possible that a little dutch farmhouse, or something of that kind, would soon make its appearance although, in fact, the neighborhood perhaps on account of being more picturesque than fertile was very sparsely inhabited .
 ''and the numerous temples, sumptuous and magnificent, may bear comparison with the most lauded of antiquity . ''
the contest was brief indeed .
yet in fact in the fact of the world  's view how little was there to remember the morning's awakening, the nightly summons to bed; the connings, the recitations; the periodical half holidays, and perambulations; the play ground, with its broils, its pastimes, its intrigues; these, by a mental sorcery long forgotten, were made to involve a wilderness of sensation, a world of rich incident, an universe of varied emotion, of excitement the most passionate and spirit stirring .
to one lie, second class; damaged black cloth sold for invisible green                                                ............................................... july .
the assault and battery business, into which i was now forced to adventure for a livelihood, was somewhat ill adapted to the delicate nature of my constitution; but i went to work in it with a good heart, and found my account here, as heretofore, in those stern habits of methodical accuracy which had been thumped into me by that delightful old nurse i would indeed be the basest of men not to remember her well in my will .
when the clown laughs, his lips, his eyes, his eye brows, and eyelids indeed, all the features of his countenance are imbued with their appropriate expressions .
the shrill voice, this witness thinks, was that of an italian .
it would require but five minutes at most to regenerate the atmosphere in the fullest manner, and the only real difficulty was to contrive a method of arousing myself at the proper moment for so doing .
the  ''gad fly '' was, of course, brought upon the tapis, and i hope never to be subjected to a criticism so searching, or to rebukes so withering, as were bestowed by mr  . crab upon that unhappy effusion.
recourse was had to figures, and these but sufficed to confound .
in painting and gemmary, fortunato, like his countrymen, was a quack but in the matter of old wines he was sincere .
if he has a project in view, he conceals his design with a marvellous wisdom; and the dexterity with which he counterfeits sanity, presents, to the metaphysician, one of the most singular problems in the study of mind .
all at once dupin broke forth with these words:   ''he is a very little fellow, that's true, and would do better for the théâtre des variétés . ''
it took a pinch with great satisfaction, and smiled me an acknowledgement in return .
are we not part and parcel in thee?
but, as i was saying, we soon began to feel the effects of liberty and long speeches, and radicalism, and all that sort of thing .
i staggered forward at once, and a few steps brought me to the vestibule of the building .
well, so far we had ridden the swells very cleverly; but presently a gigantic sea happened to take us right under the counter, and bore us with it as it rose up up as if into the sky .
madame l 'espanaye had some property .
know then that in these dominions i am monarch, and here rule with undivided empire under the title of   'king pest the first  .'  ''this apartment, which you no doubt profanely suppose to be the shop of will wimble the undertaker a man whom we know not, and whose plebeian appellation has never before this night thwarted our royal ears this apartment, i say, is the dais chamber of our palace, devoted to the councils of our kingdom, and to other sacred and lofty purposes.
i had so worked upon my imagination as really to believe that about the whole mansion and domain there hung an atmosphere peculiar to themselves and their immediate vicinity an atmosphere which had no affinity with the air of heaven, but which had reeked up from the decayed trees, and the gray wall, and the silent tarn a pestilent and mystic vapor, dull, sluggish, faintly discernible, and leaden hued .
upon this subject, however, i shall forbear to dilate .
yet one minute, and i felt that the struggle would be over .
but the mummer had gone so far as to assume the type of the red death .
  ''scratch ''  ''now, you nigger, my teeth for a good set of these you had better go to parmly's at once; high prices, but excellent work .
his friend recognized it more promptly .
many held that no visible or perceptible effect would in any manner be produced .
i screamed to pompey for aid; but he said that i had hurt his feelings by calling him       'an ignorant old squint eye:' i yelled to diana; but she only said 'bow wow wow,' and that i had told her 'on no account to stir from the corner .'
i was a sad dog, it is true but then it was a part of my nature a point of my faith .
 ''you have observed, in your notes, that the most general opinion in relation to this sad affair is, and was from the first, that the girl had been the victim of a gang of blackguards .
on these latter there were no trees, nor even shrubs of any size .
at such times, although i longed to destroy it with a blow, i was yet withheld from so doing, partly by a memory of my former crime, but chiefly let me confess it at once by absolute dread of the beast .
the sentiment of deep awe with which i habitually regarded the elevated character, the majestic wisdom, the apparent omnipresence and omnipotence of wilson, added to a feeling of even terror, with which certain other traits in his nature and assumptions inspired me, had operated, hitherto, to impress me with an idea of my own utter weakness and helplessness, and to suggest an implicit, although bitterly reluctant submission to his arbitrary will .
  ''not altogether a fool, '' said g  .,  ''but then he's a poet, which i take to be only one remove from a fool. ''
my ultimate object is only the truth .
mus go in to night, you know else there                       'll be the d l to pay, and ' 'and not a bit of pitch hot,' interrupted the foreman, with a deep sigh, and an emphasis on the 'bit    .' 'is it a long paragraph, bob?' 'shouldn't call it a wery long paragrab,' said bob. 'ah, well, then do the best you can with it we must get to press,' said the foreman, who was over head and ears in work; 'just stick in some other letter for o; nobody's going to read the fellow's trash anyhow.' 'wery well,' replied bob, 'here goes it' and off he hurried to his case, muttering as he went: 'considdeble vell, them ere expressions, perticcler for a man as doesn't swar.
the rudder was a light frame of cane covered with silk, shaped somewhat like a battle door, and was about three feet long, and at the widest, one foot .
at times, again, i was obliged to resolve all into the mere inexplicable vagaries of madness, for i beheld him gazing upon vacancy for long hours, in an attitude of the profoundest attention, as if listening to some imaginary sound .
throwing out, therefore, a quantity of sand from a canvas bag, which, he lifted with great difficulty, he became stationary in an instant .
having thus appeared to ponder over the proposed question he raises his wand, and striking with it the wall above his head, two folding doors fly open, and display an appropriate answer to the question .
 ''why the fact is, we took our time, and we searched every where .
a piece of lace was found tied so tightly around the neck as to be hidden from sight; it was completely buried in the flesh, and was fasted by a knot which lay just under the left ear .
i took from my waistcoat pocket a pen knife, opened it, grasped the poor beast by the throat, and deliberately cut one of its eyes from the socket i blush, i burn, i shudder, while i pen the damnable atrocity .
 ''let us assume , then, as e .
but moment after moment elapsed .
observing my partiality for domestic pets, she lost no opportunity of procuring those of the most agreeable kind .
the slightest exhibition of art is an evidence of care and human interest . ''
we tremble with the violence of the conflict within us, of the definite with the indefinite of the substance with the shadow .
v  . yes; for mind, existing unincorporate, is merely god.
todder day he gib me slip fore de sun up and was gone de whole ob de blessed day .
pompey, i 'll thank you now for that arm .
there would have been no need of return .
let a  ''composition '' be defective; let an emendation be wrought in its mere arrangement of form; let this emendation be submitted to every artist in the world; by each will its necessity be admitted .
the fact is that although bob was but twelve years old and four feet high, he was equal to any amount of fight, in a small way .
but, apart from decomposition, there may be, and very usually is, a generation of gas within the stomach, from the acetous fermentation of vegetable matter or within other cavities from other causes sufficient to induce a distension which will bring the body to the surface .
of course, the     'forty one degrees and thirteen minutes' could allude to nothing but elevation above the visible horizon, since the horizontal direction was clearly indicated by the words, 'northeast and by north .'
saw one of them picked up by a large ship seemingly one of the new york line packets .
presently he fell upon his knees in the pit, and, burying his naked arms up to the elbows in gold, let them there remain, as if enjoying the luxury of a bath .
havelius writes that he has several times found, in skies perfectly clear, when even stars of the sixth and seventh magnitude were conspicuous, that, at the same altitude of the moon, at the same elongation from the earth, and with one and the same excellent telescope, the moon and its maculae did not appear equally lucid at all times .
he had fired it among a crowd of women and children .
after much suffering she died, or was supposed to die .
yet, mad am i not and very surely do i not dream .
i presently recognised it as that of usher .
we had excavated the entire circle of four feet diameter, and now we slightly enlarged the limit, and went to the farther depth of two feet .
and of such passion i could form no estimate, save by the miraculous expansion of those eyes which at once so delighted and appalled me by the almost magical melody, modulation, distinctness and placidity of her very low voice and by the fierce energy rendered doubly effective by contrast with her manner of utterance of the wild words which she habitually uttered .
but the boat would he have secured it?
had there been any traces of recent disturbance we should not have failed to detect it instantly .
my design, so far, has no reference to the facts of the case .
leaving this door open to its full extent, he goes now round to the back of the box, and raising the drapery of the figure, opens another door situated precisely in the rear of the one first opened .
he was detained by urgent business but would shortly return .
it had no peculiar it had no settled predominant expression to be fastened upon the memory; a countenance seen and instantly forgotten but forgotten with a vague and never ceasing desire of recalling it to mind .
he desires less the fresh air and the green trees, than the utter license of the country .
the savans now maintained the aristotelian and baconian roads were the sole possible avenues to knowledge .
the fact is, we are all right, and thus three sundays have come together in a week . ''
the ourang outang may have escaped from him .
do you see any change in the water? ''
as i perused this i felt myself growing gradually smaller and smaller, and when i came to the point at which the editor sneered at the poem as  ''verses '' there was little more than an ounce of me left .
 ''i shall perish, '' said he,  ''i must perish in this deplorable folly .
besides, there is luchesi  ''  ''enough, '' he said;  ''the cough is a mere nothing; it will not kill me .
while the objects around me while the carvings of the ceilings, the sombre tapestries of the walls, the ebon blackness of the floors, and the phantasmagoric armorial trophies which rattled as i strode, were but matters to which, or to such as which, i had been accustomed from my infancy while i hesitated not to acknowledge how familiar was all this i still wondered to find how unfamiliar were the fancies which ordinary images were stirring up .
  ''i now scrutinized the death's head with care .
he accosted me with trepidation and passed on .
 ''but, talbot, '' i continued, pulling him by the shoulder,  ''listen to me will you?
had the lover been interrupted in his first villany by the necessity of departure to sea, and had he seized the first moment of his return to renew the base designs not yet altogether accomplished or not yet altogether accomplished by him?
it is now rather more than seven months since i received, from m  . valdemar himself, the subjoined note: my dear p , you may as well come now.
there is no argument which so touches the feeble reason of the madman as the argumentum ad absurdum .
sometimes the patient lies, for a day only, or even for a shorter period, in a species of exaggerated lethargy .
in an instant i seemed to rise from the ground .
this matter having been properly accomplished, and the furies appeased, i grew at once into high favor with mr  . crab.
he had lately made a voyage to the indian archipelago .
this was a delicate point for a woman to urge, especially so; in mentioning it, she saw that she must make a sacrifice of her feelings; still, for me, every sacrifice should be made .
why do you call me eiros?
he would turn round upon one heel by the hour, in this manner so  '' here the friend whom he had just interrupted by a whisper, performed an exactly similar office for himself .
madame lalande had not overrated the musical abilities of her friends; and the singing i here heard i had never heard excelled in any private circle out of vienna .
well, so great was the admiration excited by this latter system that, at its first introduction, aries tottle fell into disrepute; but finally he recovered ground and was permitted to divide the realm of truth with his more modern rival .
a novice in the game generally seeks to embarrass his opponents by giving them the most minutely lettered names; but the adept selects such words as stretch, in large characters, from one end of the chart to the other .
what do you mean?  ''  ''nothing, sir; only mr  . talbot is not in, that's all.
i continued the story:  ''but the good champion ethelred, now entering within the door, was sore enraged and amazed to perceive no signal of the maliceful hermit; but, in the stead thereof, a dragon of a scaly and prodigious demeanor, and of a fiery tongue, which sate in guard before a palace of gold, with a floor of silver; and upon the wall there hung a shield of shining brass with this legend enwritten who entereth herein, a conqueror hath bin; who slayeth the dragon, the shield he shall win; and ethelred uplifted his mace, and struck upon the head of the dragon, which fell before him, and gave up his pesty breath, with a shriek so horrid and harsh, and withal so piercing, that ethelred had fain to close his ears with his hands against the dreadful noise of it, the like whereof was never before heard . ''
so far, i had not ventured to stir any of my limbs but now i violently threw up my arms, which had been lying at length, with the wrists crossed .
 ''but here, '' said i  ''here '' and i dragged spitefully from its receptacle a gaunt, tall and peculiar looking form, whose remarkable appearance struck me with a sense of unwelcome familiarity  ''here is a wretch entitled to no earthly commiseration . ''
in those five pre eminent letters what a world of bitterness is there not involved but    ''oppodeldoc '' was punished with equal severity in the  ''rowdy dow, '' which spoke thus:  ''we have received a most singular and insolent communication from a person whoever he is, signing himself 'oppodeldoc' thus desecrating the greatness of the illustrious roman emperor so named .
satisfied with having produced in my bosom the intended effect, he seemed to chuckle in secret over the sting he had inflicted, and was characteristically disregardful of the public applause which the success of his witty endeavours might have so easily elicited .
while he spoke thus, i commenced the passes which i had already found most effectual in subduing him .
it was subsequently caught by the owner himself, who obtained for it a very large sum at the jardin des plantes .
for the sake of experiment i had put the cat and kittens in a small basket, and suspended it outside the car to a button at the bottom, close by the valve, through which i could feed them at any moment when necessary .
i bent my steps immediately to the mountains, and, about ten, entered a gorge which was entirely new to me .
at the first attempt to induce the magnetic somnolency, the mesmerist entirely failed .
i was not sorry to see the head which had occasioned me so much embarrassment at length make a final separation from my body .
as i fell, the ship hove in stays, and went about; and to the confusion ensuing i attributed my escape from the notice of the crew .
i pulled back at once but it was too late .
 ''and then there was an ignoramus, '' said he,  ''who mistook himself for a frog, which, by the way, he resembled in no little degree .
the individual calamity was as you say entirely unanticipated; but analogous misfortunes had been long a subject of discussion with astronomers .
do you know that prayers were actually offered up in the ancient temples to the end that these evils might not be visited upon mankind?
i confess, however, that i should like very well to know the precise character of his thoughts, when, being defied by her whom the prefect terms   'a certain personage' he is reduced to opening the letter which i left for him in the card rack . ''
my name, indeed, has been so long and so constantly before the public eye, that i am not only willing to admit the naturalness of the interest which it has everywhere excited, but ready to satisfy the extreme curiosity which it has inspired .
all efforts proved in vain .
we neither insert nor purchase any stuff of the sort .
their tickings came sonorously to my ears .
the back of the hand is upwards .
very glad to see ye, indeed '' here interrupted the general himself, seizing my companion by the hand as he drew near, and bowing stiffly, but profoundly, as i was presented .
spades were hurriedly procured, and the grave, which was shamefully shallow, was in a few minutes so far thrown open that the head of its occupant appeared .
talk of the ionic and eleatic schools of archytas, gorgias, and alcmaeon .
after incredible labor we succeeded, at length, in getting the longboat over the side without material accident, and into this we crowded the whole of the crew and most of the passengers .
si je gagne, je reviendrai a mes ortolans que les cartes soient préparées '' his grace was all care, all attention his majesty all confidence .
the hues of life flushed up with unwonted energy into the countenance the limbs relaxed and, save that the eyelids were yet pressed heavily together, and that the bandages and draperies of the grave still imparted their charnel character to the figure, i might have dreamed that rowena had indeed shaken off, utterly, the fetters of death .
young gentlemen piously inclined will be preferred .
to the west end of this structure was attached one about a third smaller in all its proportions: the line of its front standing back about two yards from that of the larger house, and the line of its roof, of course, being considerably depressed below that of the roof adjoining .
yet i am not more sure that my soul lives, than i am that perverseness is one of the primitive impulses of the human heart one of the indivisible primary faculties, or sentiments, which give direction to the character of man .
in this manner a little corn and gravel were made to perform wonders . ''
and that last hour speak of it .
 ''smith? '' said he, in his well known peculiar way of drawling out his syllables;  ''smith?
i say all this will be seen .
from this date a marked alteration took place in the outward demeanor of the dissolute young baron frederick von metzengerstein .
this to be sure was a very silly explosion of hereditary pique; and merely proved how singularly unmeaning our sayings are apt to become, when we desire to be unusually energetic .
  ''oh no to morrow's sunday . ''
our captain said that if the material of the bag had been the trumpery varnished  ''silk '' of five hundred or a thousand years ago, we should inevitably have been damaged .
the galvanic battery was applied, and he suddenly expired in one of those ecstatic paroxysms which, occasionally, it superinduces .
finally i hit upon what i considered a far better expedient than either of these .
in the beginning only, he created .
to be less abstract let us suppose a game of draughts where the pieces are reduced to four kings, and where, of course, no oversight is to be expected .
her large dark eyes fell instantly, and a deep blush mantled her cheek .
what it said of myself was .
             'why, sir, there beant an o in the office, neither a big un nor a little un' 'what what the d l has become of all that were in the case?' 'i don't know, sir,' said the boy, 'but one of them ere  ''g'zette '' devils is bin prowling 'bout here all night, and i spect he's gone and cabbaged 'em every one .'
xh, nx, nx sx gx hxme at xnce, nxw, jxhn, tx yxur xdixus xld wxxds xf cxncxrd gx hxme tx yxur wxxds, xld xwl, gx yxu wxn 't?
nevertheless, in this mansion of gloom i now proposed to myself a sojourn of some weeks .
it weighed, altogether, eight pounds six ounces .
but the case is widely different with the chess player .
i left the misses cognoscenti immediately, went behind the scenes forthwith, and gave the beggarly scoundrel such a thrashing as i trust he will remember to the day of his death .
 ''nothing farther of importance was elicited, although several other persons were examined .
yet the question of its modus operandi is still undetermined .
seize him and unmask him that we may know whom we have to hang at sunrise, from the battlements '' it was in the eastern or blue chamber in which stood the prince prospero as he uttered these words .
huge stones and beams falling momently from the decaying roofs above them, gave evidence, by their sullen and heavy descent, of the vast height of the surrounding houses; and while actual exertion became necessary to force a passage through frequent heaps of rubbish, it was by no means seldom that the hand fell upon a skeleton or rested upon a more fleshly corpse .
his head of hair would have done honor to a brutus; nothing could be more richly flowing, or possess a brighter gloss .
we have passed over some twenty or thirty vessels of various kinds, and all seem to be delightfully astonished .
it was a chilly november afternoon .
saw snap at the exchange, and went up and trod on his toe .
you know me i 'm a man of my word now be off '' here he swallowed his bumper of port, while i rushed from the room in despair .
besides all this, there was suspended from the roof of the tomb, a large bell, the rope of which, it was designed, should extend through a hole in the coffin, and so be fastened to one of the hands of the corpse .
but, of late days, i had given myself up entirely to wine; and its maddening influence upon my hereditary temper rendered me more and more impatient of control .
 ''i have said that the scrap was parchment, and not paper .
believed that madame l  . told fortunes for a living.
i could not, however, perceive any one at all .
now and then, the malady of some individual growing to a crisis, or taking a sudden turn of fury, we conveyed him to a secret cell, lest his disorder should infect the rest, and there kept him until we could dismiss him to his friends for with the raging maniac we have nothing to do .
then the dandy swore very much, and looked about for a boot black .
 ''while i listened in an extremity of astonishment which i need not attempt to describe, a strong and brief gust of wind bore off the incumbent fog as if by the wand of an enchanter .
there was no external door to the north wing, and it also had only one window to the east .
the woodwork, throughout, is of a dark hue and there is much carving about it, with but a trifling variety of pattern for, time out of mind, the carvers of vondervotteimittiss have never been able to carve more than two objects a time piece and a cabbage .
 ''ha ha ha ha ha ha '' laughed the proprietor, motioning me to a seat as i entered the room, and throwing himself back at full length upon an ottoman .
see here '' pulling down some three or four ordinary looking volumes, and opening them at random .
there was no help for it; so smothering my vexation as well as i could, i strolled moodily up the street, propounding futile inquiries about madame lalande to every male acquaintance i met .
he is of a well knit and compact frame of body, neither robust nor remarkably otherwise .
i suppose it was despair that strung my nerves .
this consideration served to calm the perturbation of my mind, and i finally succeeded in regarding the phenomenon in its proper point of view .
and now, amid all my infinite miseries, came sweetly the cherub hope for i thought of my precautions .
we are thus narrowed into t ee, and, going through the alphabet, if necessary, as before, we arrive at the word   'tree,' as the sole possible reading .
very well; but i ask him why .
a whirlwind had apparently collected its force in our vicinity; for there were frequent and violent alterations in the direction of the wind; and the exceeding density of the clouds which hung so low as to press upon the turrets of the house did not prevent our perceiving the life like velocity with which they flew careering from all points against each other, without passing away into the distance .
the advertiser designates me as the possessor of the beast .
to purchasing bran new paper shirt collar or dickey, to set off gray petersham                                       ..................................... aug. .
i now began to watch, with a strange interest, the numerous things that floated in our company .
the bar was now four inches and a half deep in my neck, and there was only a little bit of skin to cut through .
if i am in error, he will merely suppose that i have been misled by some circumstance into which he will not take the trouble to inquire .
as he bade me good bye, i bethought me that there might be some difficulty in obtaining access to the premises, and mentioned my fears on this point .
dropping a lighted cigar on the ground, as if by accident, i took the opportunity, in stooping to pick it up, of igniting privately the piece of slow match, whose end, as i said before, protruded a very little beyond the lower rim of one of the smaller casks .
at five minutes before eleven i perceived unequivocal signs of the mesmeric influence .
 ''but is this really the poet? ''
the expression of the eyes of ligeia how for long hours have i pondered upon it how have i, through the whole of a midsummer night, struggled to fathom it what was it that something more profound than the well of democritus which lay far within the pupils of my beloved?
the great problem is at length solved the air, as well as the earth and the ocean, has been subdued by science, and will become a common and convenient highway for mankind .
none of your swaggerers, and nothing at all indelicate in her motions .
this simple fact should have induced suspicion, at least, it might be thought .
yet the character of his face had been at all times remarkable .
with it came the sense of elasticity and of light .
we perpetrate them because we feel that we should not .
 ''father, '' i asked,  ''what is the chief end of my existence? ''
 ''for his nose '' shouted her grace .
it hangs like moss upon the vaults .
a quarrel, it is supposed, providentially led to her return home .
i placed myself as desired, and he proceeded .
and that gulf is what?
we had long regarded the wanderers as vapory creations of inconceivable tenuity, and as altogether incapable of doing injury to our substantial globe, even in the event of contact .
my entire worldly wealth was swallowed up, and i resigned myself thenceforward to despair .
thus; at first, it was thought unnecessary to offer a reward .
not tamely, however, did the tall seaman behold the discomfiture of his companion .
having done this justice to my faithful friend, i gave myself up with great zest and enthusiasm to the enjoyment of the scene which so obligingly spread itself out before my eyes .
i would have the judicious reader pause before accusing such asseverations of an undue quantum of absurdity .
oh, tempora oh, moses ' a philippic at once so caustic and so classical, alighted like a bombshell among the hitherto peaceful citizens of nopolis .
is nervous, and was apprehensive of the consequences of agitation .
and a cloud, dense, dismal, and limitless, does it not hang eternally between thy hopes and heaven?
thus awaking from the long night of what seemed, but was not, nonentity, at once into the very regions of fairy land into a palace of imagination into the wild dominions of monastic thought and erudition it is not singular that i gazed around me with a startled and ardent eye that i loitered away my boyhood in books, and dissipated my youth in reverie; but it is singular that as years rolled away, and the noon of manhood found me still in the mansion of my fathers it is wonderful what stagnation there fell upon the springs of my life wonderful how total an inversion took place in the character of my commonest thought .
as it is myself who now tell you this tale as you see that i did escape and as you are already in possession of the mode in which this escape was effected, and must therefore anticipate all that i have farther to say i will bring my story quickly to conclusion .
it was now that mr    . ainsworth made an extraordinary, but to my fancy, a by no means unreasonable or chimerical proposition, in which he was instantly seconded by mr. holland viz.: that we should take advantage of the strong gale which bore us on, and in place of beating back to paris, make an attempt to reach the coast of north america.
who is king but epiphanes?
the  ''little cliff, '' upon whose edge he had so carelessly thrown himself down to rest that the weightier portion of his body hung over it, while he was only kept from falling by the tenure of his elbow on its extreme and slippery edge this  ''little cliff '' arose, a sheer unobstructed precipice of black shining rock, some fifteen or sixteen hundred feet from the world of crags beneath us .
not even the monstrosity of color was wanting; for the sunlight came out through the chasm, tinted all orange and purple; while the vivid green of the grass in the valley was reflected more or less upon all objects from the curtain of vapor that still hung overhead, as if loth to take its total departure from a scene so enchantingly beautiful .
a weekly paper, le soleil, had the following comments upon this discovery comments which merely echoed the sentiment of the whole parisian press:  ''the things had all evidently been there at least three or four weeks; they were all mildewed down hard with the action of the rain and stuck together from mildew .
not that i feel the least indebted, upon this score, to my exceedingly weak minded parents, who, beyond doubt, would have made an arrant genius of me at last, if my guardian angel had not come, in good time, to the rescue .
she seemed also conscious of a cause, to me unknown, for the gradual alienation of my regard; but she gave me no hint or token of its nature .
fine that, and very delicate turn it about a little, and it will do wonders .
some few inquiries had been made, but these had been readily answered .
 ''no? well; the disclosure of the document to a third person, who shall be nameless, would bring in question the honor of a personage of most exalted station; and this fact gives the holder of the document an ascendancy over the illustrious personage whose honor and peace are so jeopardized . ''
his reasons, however, have not yet been matured into expression .
for some reason, he determined that nobody shall have any thing to do with the proceedings but himself, and he has elbowed the male relatives out of the way, according to their representations, in a very singular manner .
a white flame still enveloped the building like a shroud, and, streaming far away into the quiet atmosphere, shot forth a glare of preternatural light; while a cloud of smoke settled heavily over the battlements in the distinct colossal figure of a horse .
you have only to do so and then so so so and then so so so and then so so and then    ''mon dieu ma'm'selle salsafette '' here cried a dozen voices at once .
he leaned upon it heavily .
and then there was   'the diary of a late physician,' where the merit lay in good rant, and indifferent greek both of them taking things with the public .
that functionary, however, had not failed, during his circumgyratory movements, to bestow a thought upon the important subject of securing the packet in question, which was seen, upon inspection, to have fallen into the most proper hands, being actually addressed to himself and professor rub a dub, in their official capacities of president and vice president of the rotterdam college of astronomy .
but we are told that it was upon this very evening that madame deluc, as well as her eldest son,   'heard the screams of a female in the vicinity of the inn .'
 ''i have not asserted that it is, '' said he;  ''but, before we decide this point, i wish you to glance at the little sketch i have here traced upon this paper .
i say it seemed to resemble sobbing or sighing but, of course, it could not have been either .
for something of this nature i had indeed been prepared, no less by his letter, than by reminiscences of certain boyish traits, and by conclusions deduced from his peculiar physical conformation and temperament .
should he ever be tempted into magnificent speculation, he then, at once, loses his distinctive features, and becomes what we term  ''financier . ''
the unfortunate whose first attack should be of the extreme character which is occasionally seen, would almost inevitably be consigned alive to the tomb .
to peter proffit, walking advertiser, drs .
 ''how long i remained in this state it is impossible to say .
the movement of the jaws, in this effort to cry aloud, showed me that they were bound up, as is usual with the dead .
there was no american money .
this functionary, however well disposed to my friend, could not altogether conceal his chagrin at the turn which affairs had taken, and was fain to indulge in a sarcasm or two, about the propriety of every person minding his own business .
now, the popular opinion, under certain conditions, is not to be disregarded .
the windows, too, were without curtains; the shutters, being shut, were securely fastened with iron bars, applied diagonally, after the fashion of our ordinary shop shutters .
it was especially bitter about things in general and as for the editor of   'the gazette,' he was torn all to pieces in particular .
in a very few minutes it arrived near enough to be accurately discerned .
it oppressed us with a hideous novelty of emotion .
by the by, my dear friend, do you not think it would have puzzled these ancient dogmaticians to have determined by which of their two roads it was that the most important and most sublime of all their truths was, in effect, attained?
at length, while, stupefied and terror stricken, i stood in expectation of i knew not what hideous destruction, the car vibrated with excessive violence, and a gigantic and flaming mass of some material which i could not distinguish, came with a voice of a thousand thunders, roaring and booming by the balloon .
a pair of prodigious ears, nevertheless, which it was no doubt found impossible to confine, towered away into the atmosphere of the apartment, and were occasionally pricked up in a spasm, at the sound of the drawing of a cork .
upon turning it over, i saw my own sketch upon the reverse, just as i had made it .
the disastrous earthquake, however, of the year , so totally uprooted and overwhelmed the town for it was almost too large to be called a village that the most indefatigable of our antiquarians have never yet been able to obtain from the site any sufficient data in the shape of coins, medals or inscriptions wherewith to build up even the ghost of a theory concerning the manners, customs, c    ., c., c., of the aboriginal inhabitants.
you will forgive me for the moderate tax i shall make upon your imagination, and endeavor to consider, for an instant, the reflection of your person in yonder mirror as the living mynheer hermann himself .
the shrub here often attains the height of fifteen or twenty feet, and forms an almost impenetrable coppice, burthening the air with its fragrance .
it is evident that we are hurrying onwards to some exciting knowledge some never to be imparted secret, whose attainment is destruction .
for several minutes, although he looked me full in the face, he said nothing .
 ''my dear madam, '' said he,  ''sit down .
we saw no need of the impulse for the propensity .
let us content ourselves with this supposition .
to the victims of its tyranny, there was the choice of death with its direst physical agonies, or death with its most hideous moral horrors .
and here, too, is a somewhat similar thing .
his face was as yellow as saffron but no feature excepting one alone, was sufficiently marked to merit a particular description .
of this spirit philosophy takes no account .
i shrunk convulsively at its every sweep .
his lynx eye immediately perceives the paper, recognises the handwriting of the address, observes the confusion of the personage addressed, and fathoms her secret .
the answer now was immediate, but even less audible than before:  ''no pain i am dying . ''
i turned from them in contempt, and, gazing upward at the earth so lately left, and left perhaps for ever, beheld it like a huge, dull, copper shield, about two degrees in diameter, fixed immovably in the heavens overhead, and tipped on one of its edges with a crescent border of the most brilliant gold .
and since by person we understand an intelligent essence having reason, and since there is a consciousness which always accompanies thinking, it is this which makes us all to be that which we call ourselves, thereby distinguishing us from other beings that think, and giving us our personal identity .
 ''you explored the floors beneath the carpets? ''  ''beyond doubt .
this state of things, however, did not last long enough to give us time to think about it .
to look at a star by glances to view it in a side long way, by turning toward it the exterior portions of the retina more susceptible of feeble impressions of light than the interior, is to behold the star distinctly is to have the best appreciation of its lustre a lustre which grows dim just in proportion as we turn our vision fully upon it .
many of them were very old, and as time keepers valueless; the works having suffered, more or less, from corrosion but all were richly jewelled and in cases of great worth .
indeed, i had so well secured them in their places, that such an accident was entirely out of the question .
 ''so far as his labors extended? '' said i  .  ''yes, '' said dupin.
st  . eustache was the accepted suitor of marie, and lodged, as well as took his meals, at the pension.
dupin scrutinized every thing not excepting the bodies of the victims .
i was not surprised, however, to perceive that he had long made up his mind upon a topic which had occasioned so much of discussion to his friends .
it will not do, however, to deny that you are in some measure implicated in them .
the rudder is also very much larger, in proportion, than that of the model; and the screw is considerably smaller .
we have, for example, a metal, a piece of wood, a drop of water, the atmosphere, a gas, caloric, electricity, the luminiferous ether .
shall i then say that i longed with an earnest and consuming desire for the moment of morella 's decease?
yours everlastingly, pundita .
as the stronger party, however, we overruled their fears, and kept resolutely upon our course .
and in what words does madame deluc designate the period of the evening at which these screams were heard?
still, the general appearance was certainly not that of death .
 ''treason '' shouted his majesty king pest the first .
this fact the mathematicians of our globe well knew .
the peculiar marks on the back and shoulders of the victim tell of the bottom ribs of a boat .
the antennæ are  ''  ''dey aint no tin in him, massa will, i keep a tellin on you, '' here interrupted jupiter;  ''de bug is a goole bug, solid, ebery bit of him, inside and all, sep him wing neber feel half so hebby a bug in my life . ''
the placing my name that is to say, my nom de guerre in priority of station to that of the great slyass, was a compliment as happy as i felt it to be deserved .
it harassed because it haunted .
our present incarnation is progressive, preparatory, temporary .
for example, he used to leap upon the dinner table thus, and and  '' here a friend, at the side of the speaker, put a hand upon his shoulder and whispered a few words in his ear, upon which he ceased talking with great suddenness, and sank back within his chair .
he impaired his vision by holding the object too close .
during a pedestrian trip last summer, through one or two of the river counties of new york, i found myself, as the day declined, somewhat embarrassed about the road i was pursuing .
an inquiry will afford us amusement, '' i thought this an odd term, so applied, but said nothing  ''and, besides, le bon once rendered me a service for which i am not ungrateful .
yet the fact, the deed, the thing diddling, is somewhat difficult to define .
these shadows of memory tell, indistinctly, of tall figures that lifted and bore me in silence down down still down till a hideous dizziness oppressed me at the mere idea of the interminableness of the descent .
all the head that i saw the monster possessed of was one of those hessian canteens which resemble a large snuff box with a hole in the middle of the lid .
 ''what broad and rapid river is that which forces its way, with innumerable falls, through the mountainous wilderness, and finally through the wilderness of buildings? ''
you have done nothing which you could have avoided nothing, certainly, which renders you culpable .
the public papers immediately took up the theme, and the police were upon the point of making serious investigations, when, one fine morning, after the lapse of a week, marie, in good health, but with a somewhat saddened air, made her re appearance at her usual counter in the perfumery .
 ''i have no better advice to give you, '' said dupin .
ordinary assassins employ no such modes of murder as this .
our confinement is necessarily close; but the treatment the medical treatment, i mean is rather agreeable to the patients than otherwise . ''
paradise, it appears, has been, literally speaking, an island time out of mind that is to say, its northern boundary was always as far back as any record extends a rivulet, or rather a very narrow arm of the sea .
 ''an angel upon earth '' ejaculated a third .
in the centre of this rift i perceived a white spot, but could not, at first, distinguish what it was .
i thanked him, and, turning from the main road, we entered a grass grown by path, which, in half an hour, nearly lost itself in a dense forest, clothing the base of a mountain .
about this star, or at all events about a centre of gravity common to all the globes of the milky way and supposed to be near alcyone in the pleiades, every one of these globes was declared to be revolving, our own performing the circuit in a period of ,, of years we, with our present lights, our vast telescopic improvements, and so forth, of course find it difficult to comprehend the ground of an idea such as this .
distinguished several words .
upon reaching the opposite shore, the three passengers stepped out, and had proceeded so far as to be beyond the view of the boat, when the daughter discovered that she had left in it her parasol .
i was frantic with every species of wild excitement, and felt within my single arm the energy and power of a multitude .
the wide, heavy folding doors of the apartment were all at once thrown open, to their full extent, with a vigorous and rushing impetuosity that extinguished, as if by magic, every candle in the room .
there were no cuts apparent, or bruises which appeared the effect of blows .
and it made easy to her the bed of her death .
       'dod rot him i haven't a doubt of it,' replied the foreman, getting purple with rage 'but i tell you what you do, bob, that's a good boy you go over the first chance you get and hook every one of their i's and d n them their izzards .'
 ''we must cut him, '' continued mr  . crab,  ''decidedly and forever.
the duc muttered a slight oath, decidedly approbatory .
 ''oh my '' lisped the marquis .
the left lung had been for eighteen months in a semi osseous or cartilaginous state, and was, of course, entirely useless for all purposes of vitality .
doubled his fist and knocked me down .
its wandering and wild glances fell at this moment upon the head of the bed, over which the face of its master, rigid with horror, was just discernible .
will the gods never cease their persecution?
 ''it was fully eleven by the time i had completed these arrangements, and i immediately betook myself to bed, with full confidence in the efficiency of my invention .
there was no escape from this conclusion .
the huge old house, with its countless subdivisions, had several large chambers communicating with each other, where slept the greater number of the students .
yes, she loved me she returned the enthusiasm of my love, with an enthusiasm as blind as uncompromising as uncalculating as abandoned and as utterly unbounded as my own these delicious fancies and reflections, however, were now interrupted by the falling of the drop curtain .
when he had gone, the superintendent ushered me into a small and exceedingly neat parlor, containing, among other indications of refined taste, many books, drawings, pots of flowers, and musical instruments .
and now was acknowledged the presence of the red death .
i was astonished, too, at the vast extent of his reading; and, above all, i felt my soul enkindled within me by the wild fervor, and the vivid freshness of his imagination .
this cloth we suppose to have a twofold object .
it passed in many convolutions about my limbs and body, leaving at liberty only my head, and my left arm to such extent that i could, by dint of much exertion, supply myself with food from an earthen dish which lay by my side on the floor .
there were some who even conceived that mr  . ellison would divest himself of at least one half of his fortune, as of utterly superfluous opulence enriching whole troops of his relatives by division of his superabundance.
moreover, this knot is one which few besides sailors can tie, and is peculiar to the maltese .
the body of the little man was more than proportionately broad, giving to his entire figure a rotundity highly absurd .
in the present instance, eugenie, who for a few moments past had seemed to be searching for something in her bosom, at length let fall upon the grass a miniature, which i immediately picked up and presented to her  .  ''keep it '' she said, with one of her most ravishing smiles.
oh, gigantic paradox, too utterly monstrous for solution at an angle of the ponderous wall frowned a more ponderous gate .
one night last winter i entered a box at the p theatre, in company with a friend, mr  . talbot.
hearken and observe how healthily how calmly i can tell you the whole story .
the natural platform to which we had clambered was thickly overgrown with brambles, through which we soon discovered that it would have been impossible to force our way but for the scythe; and jupiter, by direction of his master, proceeded to clear for us a path to the foot of an enormously tall tulip tree, which stood, with some eight or ten oaks, upon the level, and far surpassed them all, and all other trees which i had then ever seen, in the beauty of its foliage and form, in the wide spread of its branches, and in the general majesty of its appearance .
a careful search soon brought to light the hidden spring .
 ''it is certainly a strange place what is the meaning of yonder singular building?
the third was green throughout, and so were the casements .
he was great in dreams, portents, et id genus omne of rigmarole .
but, there being no division, my first step was to ascertain the predominant letters, as well as the least frequent .
 ''i am very much surprised, '' i said,  ''at what you tell me; for i made sure that, at this moment, no other method of treatment for mania existed in any portion of the country . ''
they have three cornered cocked hats, purple waistcoats reaching down to their thighs, buckskin knee breeches, red stockings, heavy shoes with big silver buckles, long surtout coats with large buttons of mother of pearl .
on the contrary, we not only indulged but encouraged them; and many of our most permanent cures have been thus effected .
she returned no more to her husband, but, concealing from him her resurrection, fled with her lover to america .
it is merely a very long rope which is suffered to trail from the car, and the effect of which is to prevent the balloon from changing its level in any material degree .
from no particular disposition of the men at one period of a game can we predicate their disposition at a different period .
you have no reason for concealment .
this ledge projected about eighteen inches, and was not more than a foot wide, while a niche in the cliff just above it, gave it a rude resemblance to one of the hollow backed chairs used by our ancestors .
 ''several witnesses, recalled, here testified that the chimneys of all the rooms on the fourth story were too narrow to admit the passage of a human being .
there was no discoloration in the cellular tissue .
but as, in ethics, evil is a consequence of good, so, in fact, out of joy is sorrow born .
your acting is very natural, as i live . ''
but at length the ceremony of baptism presented to my mind, in its unnerved and agitated condition, a present deliverance from the terrors of my destiny .
in the first place, my left arm had been broken in my fall from the ladder, and, therefore, had i let go my hold with the right hand, i must have let go altogether .
it must be confessed that a supposition apparently so wild has every probability in its favor .
to all this i am sorry that i cannot reply .
little was said; and our chief embarrassment lay in the yelpings of the dog, who took exceeding interest in our proceedings .
the       'hum drum,' the 'rowdy dow' and the 'goosetherumfoodle' must look well to their laurels .
there were circumstances but i think it much safer upon consideration to say as little as possible about an affair so delicate so delicate, i repeat, and at the time involving the interests of a third party whose sulphurous resentment i have not the least desire, at this moment, of incurring .
the head of which only the back was visible, rivalled in outline that of the greek psyche, and was rather displayed than concealed by an elegant cap of gaze aerienne, which put me in mind of the ventum textilem of apuleius .
poor justification this, in truth, for an authority so imperiously assumed poor indemnity for natural rights of self agency so pertinaciously, so insultingly denied i had also been forced to notice that my tormentor, for a very long period of time, while scrupulously and with miraculous dexterity maintaining his whim of an identity of apparel with myself, had so contrived it, in the execution of his varied interference with my will, that i saw not, at any moment, the features of his face .
if i live a thousand years, i can never forget the intense emotion with which i regarded this figure .
then comes a sense of sudden motionlessness throughout all things; as if those who bore me a ghastly train had outrun, in their descent, the limits of the limitless, and paused from the wearisomeness of their toil .
no observing person can have failed to notice the peculiarly deserted air of the town, from about eight until ten on the morning of every sabbath .
there were delirious fancies such as the madman fashions .
the gale still held on, however, and we saw no signs of its abating .
could i? that was the question .
he handed me a paper, and i read thus: caught in the bois de boulogne, early in the morning of the inst  ., the morning of the murder, a very large, tawny ourang outang of the bornese species.
they paid me no manner of attention, and, although i stood in the very midst of them all, seemed utterly unconscious of my presence .
 ''here, '' he resumed, arising and leaning on my arm as he sauntered around the apartment,  ''here are paintings from the greeks to cimabue, and from cimabue to the present hour .
the lion, the tiger, and the leopard are entirely without restraint .
there came forth in return only a jingling of the bells .
 ''two '' continued the big bell; and  ''doo '' repeated all the repeaters .
for if it were, the inventor, so far from wishing its mechanism to appear complex, and using deception for the purpose of giving it this appearance, would have been especially desirous of convincing those who witnessed his exhibition, of the simplicity of the means by which results so wonderful were brought about  . .
they are pouring through the alley of heraclides, which leads directly from the palace; therefore the king is most probably among the rioters .
i had swooned; but still will not say that all of consciousness was lost .
of course i don 't speak of the political articles .
 ''true, '' i replied;  ''the amontillado . ''
 ''he had married, '' he said,  ''for love, and for love only; and his bride was far more than worthy of his love . ''
you perceive i cannot speak of these latter without enthusiasm; it is not too much to say that they were the handsomest pair of whiskers under the sun .
this is merely a joke of yours, i know ha ha ha how very pleasant you are at times . ''
 ''diavolo '' cried count capricornutti .
when the question is demanded explicitly of maelzel  ''is the automaton a pure machine or not? '' his reply is invariably the same  ''i will say nothing about it . ''
on the other hand, you are bound by every principle of honor to confess all you know .
i would in vain attempt to portray the majesty, the quiet ease, of her demeanor, or the incomprehensible lightness and elasticity of her footfall .
 ''yes, '' said i,  ''i remember his merriment well .
this adventure occurred near richmond, in virginia .
i now determined to keep a journal of my passage, reckoning the days from one to twenty four hours continuously, without taking into consideration the intervals of darkness .
 ''let him talk, '' said dupin, who had not thought it necessary to reply .
jupiter 's account of him boded no good .
 ''our boat was the lightest feather of a thing that ever sat upon water .
these peculiarities are, no doubt, mere mannerisms of m  . maelzel, or, if he is aware of them at all, he puts them in practice with a view of exciting in the spectators a false idea of the pure mechanism in the automaton.
 ''but there are still other and stronger reasons for believing them so deposited, than any which i have as yet urged .
and this thicket, so full of a natural art, was in the immediate vicinity, within a few rods, of the dwelling of madame deluc, whose boys were in the habit of closely examining the shrubberies about them in search of the bark of the sassafras .
i will therefore put you upon an expeditious and decisive plan of obtaining this very necessary information .
i repeat, then, that i speak of these things only as of coincidences .
it was the moral embodiment of man 's abstract idea of time .
 ''it is a mere typographical error .
but our man of business is in no hurry to conclude a contract with any no man of business is ever precipitate and it is not until the most rigid catechism in respect to the piety of each young gentleman 's inclination, that his services are engaged and his fifty dollars receipted for, just by way of proper precaution, on the part of the respectable firm of bogs, hogs, logs, frogs, and company .
 ''extremely singular '' said the young baron, with a musing air, and apparently unconscious of the meaning of his words .
the cat was lying very demurely upon my coat, which i had taken off, and eyeing the pigeons with an air of nonchalance .
an omnibus driver, valence, now also testified that he saw marie rogêt cross a ferry on the seine, on the sunday in question, in company with a young man of dark complexion .
at the windows were curtains of snowy white jaconet muslin: they were tolerably full, and hung decisively, perhaps rather formally in sharp, parallel plaits to the floor just to the floor .
 ''how far mus go up, massa? '' inquired jupiter .
victims had been in immediate demand .
you know my political prepossessions .
in an instant the apartment had shifted its form into that of a lozenge .
when i mention his weakness i have allusion to a bizarre old womanish superstition which beset him .
the corpse was in such condition when found, that there could have been no difficulty in its recognition by friends .
my story requires that i should be somewhat minute .
and thus were produced a multitude of gaudy and fantastic appearances .
from this it required much effort and attention to scare them away .
besides these things, were seen, on all sides, banners and palanquins, litters with stately dames close veiled, elephants gorgeously caparisoned, idols grotesquely hewn, drums, banners, and gongs, spears, silver and gilded maces .
but it could have been neither the execution of the work, nor the immortal beauty of the countenance, which had so suddenly and so vehemently moved me .
but he can never be thus divested at least never will be else we must imagine an action of god returning upon itself a purposeless and futile action .
it is noticeable that the popular prejudices and vulgar errors in regard to pestilences and wars errors which were wont to prevail upon every appearance of a comet were now altogether unknown .
about twelve o 'clock, one night in the month of october, and during the chivalrous reign of the third edward, two seamen belonging to the crew of the  ''free and easy, '' a trading schooner plying between sluys and the thames, and then at anchor in that river, were much astonished to find themselves seated in the tap room of an ale house in the parish of st  . andrews, london which ale house bore for sign the portraiture of a  ''jolly tar. ''
in my situation it is really a great relief to be able to open ones mouth to be able to expatiate to be able to communicate with a person like yourself, who do not think yourself called upon at every period to interrupt the thread of a gentleman 's discourse .
the spectators being satisfied of this fact, maelzel closes the back door, locks it, takes the key from the lock, lets fall the drapery of the figure, and comes round to the front .
wyatt 's party arrived in about ten minutes after myself .
meantime the devil, to whom the copy was entrusted, ran up stairs to his     'case,' in an unutterable hurry, and forthwith made a commencement at 'setting' the ms .
i wouldn 't have put up with it, if i had .
beyond all things, the study of the german moralists gave me great delight; not from any ill advised admiration of their eloquent madness, but from the ease with which my habits of rigid thought enabled me to detect their falsities .
no one can say that he has exactly lost a pocket book; but a great excitement ensues, when the treasure trove is found to be of value .
could it be otherwise, when i daily discovered in the conceptions of the child the adult powers and faculties of the woman?
his room was as black as pitch with the thick darkness, for the shutters were close fastened, through fear of robbers, and so i knew that he could not see the opening of the door, and i kept pushing it on steadily, steadily .
in the meantime, looking toward the cat, who was again snugly stowed away upon my coat, i discovered to my infinite surprise, that she had taken the opportunity of my indisposition to bring into light a litter of three little kittens .
here all was the wildest tumult and contention .
but this labor concluded, he may have thought it expedient to remove all participants in his secret .
the inquisition was in the hands of its enemies .
she remained with him until, by slow degrees, she fully recovered her original health .
but even yet i refrained and kept still .
you may hint at buck wheat cake, or you may even go so far as to insinuate oat meal porridge, but if bread and butter be your real meaning, be cautious, my dear miss psyche, not on any account to say   'bread and butter' '' i assured him that i should never say it again as long as i lived .
her huge hull was of a deep dingy black, unrelieved by any of the customary carvings of a ship .
it is impossible to describe, or to imagine, the deep, the blissful sense of relief which the absence of the detested creature occasioned in my bosom .
captain pratt maintains that to morrow will be sunday: so it will; he is right, too .
all around were horror, and thick gloom, and a black sweltering desert of ebony .
she urged the old story of decorum that bug bear which deters so many from bliss until the opportunity for bliss has forever gone by .
he seemed pleased, and went on with his instructions .
 ''eleven '' said the big one .
 ''i am aware, '' said the traveller, as he drew a sigh of deep delight after gazing on this scene, entranced, for nearly an hour,  ''i know that here, in my circumstances, nine tenths of the most fastidious of men would rest content .
 ''it is true that balloons, in the first stage of their ascensions from the earth, are known to rise with a velocity comparatively moderate .
what i have heard has been at third or fourth hand . ''
i exclaimed,  ''and voissart why, what is it you mean? ''  ''vat i mean?
the other one did not prove so unfortunate .
besides, in our case, we were obliged to proceed without noise . ''
i replied as best i could as only a true lover can .
the origin of this enmity seems to be found in the words of an ancient prophecy  ''a lofty name shall have a fearful fall when, as the rider over his horse, the mortality of metzengerstein shall triumph over the immortality of berlifitzing . ''
we observed too, that, although the tempest continued to rage with unabated violence, there was no longer to be discovered the usual appearance of surf, or foam, which had hitherto attended us .
apply to the       'hum drum,' the 'lollipop,' or the 'goosetherumfoodle .'
i sat by the side of her ebony bed, upon one of the ottomans of india .
the apothecary had an idea that i was actually dead .
i never saw any set of reasonable people so thoroughly frightened in my life .
the interior of the automaton being then exhibited, and no person discovered, the spectators, says the author of this pamphlet, are satisfied that no one is within any portion of the machine .
   ''i could not tell you the twentieth part of the difficulties we encountered 'on the grounds' it is a bad spot to be in, even in good weather but we made shift always to run the gauntlet of the moskoe ström itself without accident; although at times my heart has been in my mouth when we happened to be a minute or so behind or before the slack .
the assembly, at this epoch, was unusually well informed, and, having passed many other wise and wholesome enactments, it crowned all with the cat act .
they all grew as pale as so many corpses, and, shrinking within their seats, sat quivering and gibbering with terror, and listening for a repetition of the sound .
he bows, with his hand upon his heart, and most respectfully bids her adieu .
much is also received into the stomach, and the whole body becomes heavier by the difference between the weight of the air originally distending these cavities, and that of the fluid which now fills them .
a dozen times he hears or fancies the step of an observer .
when we first discovered her, her bows were alone to be seen, as she rose slowly from the dim and horrible gulf beyond her .
hereafter a very notorious roman emperor will institute this worship in rome, and thence derive a cognomen, heliogabalus .
he evidently regarded his tall shipmate with a feeling half wondrous, half quizzical; and stared up occasionally in his face as the red setting sun stares up at the crags of ben nevis .
they clung to the wood they overran it, and leaped in hundreds upon my person .
had the true scene been, as le commerciel suggested, in the neighborhood of the rue pavée st  . andrée, the perpetrators of the crime, supposing them still resident in paris, would naturally have been stricken with terror at the public attention thus acutely directed into the proper channel; and, in certain classes of minds, there would have arisen, at once, a sense of the necessity of some exertion to redivert this attention.
in the afternoon we all called again to see the patient .
deep ravines, in various directions, gave an air of still sterner solemnity to the scene .
to avoid the inconvenience of making a total vacuum at any moment within the chamber, this purification was never accomplished all at once, but in a gradual manner the valve being opened only for a few seconds, then closed again, until one or two strokes from the pump of the condenser had supplied the place of the atmosphere ejected .
the once occasional huskiness of his tone was heard no more; and a tremulous quaver, as if of extreme terror, habitually characterized his utterance .
having satisfied myself upon this point, i was about turning my eyes to the prima donna, when they were arrested and riveted by a figure in one of the private boxes which had escaped my observation .
i will be minute in relating all but at what point shall the weird narrative begin?
the ultimate, or unparticled matter, not only permeates all things but impels all things and thus is all things within itself .
he was three feet in height i like to be particular and about seventy, or perhaps eighty, years of age .
 ''my dear thingum, '' said he to me one day after dinner,  ''i respect your abilities and love you as a son .
the courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and massy hammers and welded the bolts .
i knew not the word  ''ease . ''
i have copied them chiefly to show you the extreme remissness of the police, who, as far as i can understand from the prefect, have not troubled themselves, in any respect, with an examination of the naval officer alluded to .
his intellect was of that order to which the attainment of knowledge is less a labor than a necessity and an intuition .
one seeks to recall the original beauty of the country, by adapting its means to the surrounding scenery, cultivating trees in harmony with the hills or plain of the neighboring land; detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size, proportion, and color which, hid from the common observer, are revealed everywhere to the experienced student of nature .
at length one of the most aged of the women said that she had heard of such a place as bessop 's castle, and thought that she could guide me to it, but that it was not a castle nor a tavern, but a high rock .
my practice was this .
in this case, that the automaton was about to move is evident and that he did not move, was an effect plainly produced by the withdrawal of the antagonist, and without any intervention of maelzel .
excited by such appliances to vice, my constitutional temperament broke forth with redoubled ardor, and i spurned even the common restraints of decency in the mad infatuation of my revels .
in a word, the powers of mind more particularly exercised were, with me, as i have said before, the attentive, and are, with the day dreamer, the speculative .
 ''you shall conquer, then, mon ami, '' said she,  ''for the sake of the eugenie whom you love, this little weakness which you have at last confessed this weakness more moral than physical and which, let me assure you, is so unbecoming the nobility of your real nature so inconsistent with the candor of your usual character and which, if permitted further control, will assuredly involve you, sooner or later, in some very disagreeable scrape .
to day i wear these chains, and am here to morrow i shall be fetterless but where?
the solution consists in a series of minute explanations, accompanied by wood cuts, the whole occupying many pages in which the object is to show the possibility of so shifting the partitions of the box, as to allow a human being, concealed in the interior, to move portions of his body from one part of the box to another, during the exhibition of the mechanism thus eluding the scrutiny of the spectators .
presently a smart footman in livery brought in a tray with fruit, wine, and other refreshments, of which i partook, the lady soon afterward leaving the room .
she was quite upon an even keel that is to say, her deck lay in a plane parallel with that of the water but this latter sloped at an angle of more than forty five degrees, so that we seemed to be lying upon our beam ends .
the walls of the myriads of the shining bodies that mere number has appeared to blend into unity?
it is beyond the reach of art to endow either air or recitative with more impassioned expression than was hers .
the occupation is often full of interest and he who attempts it for the first time is astonished by the apparently illimitable distance and incoherence between the starting point and the goal .
what men attempt to embody in the word  ''thought, '' is this matter in motion .
they will scarcely be so weak as not to   'realize,' in time, by large purchases of houses and land, with other property of intrinsic value .
had the whole actually vanished into air, it could not have shot from my sight in a more abrupt and instantaneous manner .
i am as positive that yesterday was sunday as i am that i sit upon this chair . ''
wearied at length with observing its dull movement, i turned my eyes upon the other objects in the cell .
the same name the same contour of person the same day of arrival at the academy and then his dogged and meaningless imitation of my gait, my voice, my habits, and my manner was it, in truth, within the bounds of human possibility, that what i now saw was the result, merely, of the habitual practice of this sarcastic imitation?
he examines the countenance of his partner, comparing it carefully with that of each of his opponents .
he would return a purse, i am sure, upon discovering that he had obtained it by an unoriginal diddle .
during the five years of my residence here, i was never able to ascertain with precision, in what remote locality lay the little sleeping apartment assigned to myself and some eighteen or twenty other scholars .
i now raised up the hoop again within the covering of gum elastic, and propped it at nearly its former height by means of three light poles prepared for the occasion .
it was spotted all over, at irregular intervals, with arabesque figures, about a foot in diameter, and wrought upon the cloth in patterns of the most jetty black .
has anything unpleasant happened since i saw you?    ''  ''no, massa, dey aint bin noffin unpleasant since den 'twas fore den i'm feared 'twas de berry day you was dare . ''
you are a man to be missed .
yet i should fail in any attempt to convey an idea of the exact character of the studies, or of the occupations, in which he involved me, or led me the way .
the vortex of thoughtless folly into which i there so immediately and so recklessly plunged, washed away all but the froth of my past hours, engulfed at once every solid or serious impression, and left to memory only the veriest levities of a former existence .
my friend went on with his discourse .
image of automaton at the hour appointed for exhibition, a curtain is withdrawn, or folding doors are thrown open, and the machine rolled to within about twelve feet of the nearest of the spectators, between whom and it the machine a rope is stretched .
to be sure, this composition was of no very great length but i  ''have yet to learn '' as they say in the edinburgh review, that the mere extent of a literary work has any thing to do with its merit .
will you be kind enough to write?
the contour of his face was somewhat angular and harsh .
these appearances in the right lobe were of comparatively recent date .
all attempts at logical inquiry resulted, indeed, in leaving me more sceptical than before .
 ''how? did you put any thing particular in it? ''
the prospect seemed unbounded .
that tenuity in the comet which had previously inspired us with hope, was now the source of the bitterness of despair .
i want the damages at a thousand, but he says that for so simple a knock down we can 't lay them at more than five hundred .
its brilliant flowers are the dearest of all unfulfilled dreams, and its raging volcanoes are the passions of the most turbulent and unhallowed of hearts .
yet differently we grew i, ill of health, and buried in gloom she, agile, graceful, and overflowing with energy; hers, the ramble on the hill side mine the studies of the cloister; i, living within my own heart, and addicted, body and soul, to the most intense and painful meditation she, roaming carelessly through life, with no thought of the shadows in her path, or the silent flight of the raven winged hours .
  ''like sir george cayley's balloon, his own was an ellipsoid .
could he, for an instant, have supposed that, in my admonisher at eton in the destroyer of my honor at oxford, in him who thwarted my ambition at rome, my revenge at paris, my passionate love at naples, or what he falsely termed my avarice in egypt, that in this, my arch enemy and evil genius, could fail to recognise the william wilson of my school boy days, the namesake, the companion, the rival, the hated and dreaded rival at dr . bransby 's?
wrap the drawing around it, and try the experiment again . ''
i strived to decypher them, but in vain; while ever and anon, like the spirit of a departed sound, the shrill and piercing shriek of a female voice seemed to be ringing in my ears .
 ''contradictories cannot both be true that is, cannot co exist in nature . ''
it was clear that i had wandered from the road to the village, and i had thus good traveller 's excuse to open the gate before me, and inquire my way, at all events; so, without more ado, i proceeded .
it has been observed, that, in balloon ascensions to any considerable height, besides the pain attending respiration, great uneasiness is experienced about the head and body, often accompanied with bleeding at the nose, and other symptoms of an alarming kind, and growing more and more inconvenient in proportion to the altitude attained .
he would have been in too great haste for such things as securing a boat .
the former was found securely fastened from within .
at all events i undoubtedly beheld the whole of the earth 's major diameter; the entire northern hemisphere lay beneath me like a chart orthographically projected: and the great circle of the equator itself formed the boundary line of my horizon .
yet there was something to be observed .
but as yet my soul had proved true to its vows, and the indications of the presence of eleonora were still given me in the silent hours of the night .
but in regard to the immediate agency of the ruin, speculation had been at fault from that epoch in astronomical knowledge in which the comets were divested of the terrors of flame .
the most reasonable conclusion is, that he wept himself to death .
had the balloon remained a very short while longer within the cloud that is to say had not the inconvenience of getting wet, determined me to discharge the ballast, inevitable ruin would have been the consequence .
why, why should i doubt it?
but, the thing done, the wonder accomplished, and the capacity for apprehension becomes universal .
the handkerchief bore the name  ''marie rogêt . ''
 ''you remember; '' said he,  ''the night when i handed you the rough sketch i had made of the scarabæus .
with mr  . crab, as editor, and with such names upon the list of contributors as snob and slyass, there can be no such word as    'fail' for the lollipop.'
its principal feature seemed to be that of an excessive antiquity .
and nevertheless it was done .
well, aries tottle flourished supreme until advent of one hog, surnamed the  ''ettrick shepherd, '' who preached an entirely different system, which he called the a posteriori or inductive .
at all events, with my knapsack for a pillow, and my hound as a sentry, a bivouac in the open air was just the thing which would have amused me .
the truth is, that few individuals, in any line, did a snugger little business than i .
as the second landing was reached, these sounds, also, had ceased and everything remained perfectly quiet .
this central orb, however, dynamically, should have been greater than all its surrounding orbs taken together .
but in the present case the question is of a dress, presenting but one edge .
having descended, as i said before, to about one hundred feet from the surface of the earth, the little old gentleman was suddenly seized with a fit of trepidation, and appeared disinclined to make any nearer approach to terra firma .
 ''this model which, through want of time, we have necessarily described in an imperfect manner, was put in action at the adelaide gallery, where it accomplished a velocity of five miles per hour; although, strange to say, it excited very little interest in comparison with the previous complex machine of mr  . henson so resolute is the world to despise anything which carries with it an air of simplicity.
to one lie, first class, extra quality and size; recommended milled satinet as broadcloth                       ...................... july .
i was forced to fall back upon the unsatisfactory conclusion, that while, beyond doubt, there are combinations of very simple natural objects which have the power of thus affecting us, still the analysis of this power lies among considerations beyond our depth .
as often happens, when such refusals are made, the practitioners resolved to disinter the body and dissect it at leisure, in private .
 ''as i live, there she is '' cried one .
this thought creates .
when i had attained that point of the ravine in the mountains at which i had encountered the hyena, i again experienced a shock as of a galvanic battery, the sense of weight, of volition, of substance, returned .
the attention is here called powerfully into play .
a better kind of material, it appears, was subsequently found in the down surrounding the seed vessels of a plant vulgarly called euphorbium, and at that time botanically termed milk weed .
       'and one part,' too, 'was the hem of the frock' another piece was 'part of the skirt, not the hem,' that is to say, was torn completely out through the agency of thorns, from the uncaged interior of the dress these, i say, are things which one may well be pardoned for disbelieving; yet, taken collectedly, they form, perhaps, less of reasonable ground for suspicion, than the one startling circumstance of the articles' having been left in this thicket at all, by any murderers who had enough precaution to think of removing the corpse .
in the meantime i kept my eyes riveted on madame lalande, and at length had the good fortune to obtain a full front view of her face .
in the heart of venice could i have erected a better?
with painful effort i outstretched my left arm as far as my bonds permitted, and took possession of the small remnant which had been spared me by the rats .
i not only neglected, but ill used them .
amazement now struggled in my bosom with the profound awe which had hitherto reigned there alone .
long years have since elapsed, and my memory is feeble through much suffering .
how are we to know that the articles found in the drawers were not all these drawers had originally contained?
one of them struck me upon the right temple .
it will be necessary for a proper understanding of the subject, that we repeat here in a few words, the routine adopted by the exhibiter in disclosing the interior of the box a routine from which he never deviates in any material particular .
the second impression which she made on me, but by far the more vivid of the two, was that of enthusiasm .
they were long and loud very awful and distressing .
there are numerous other mathematical truths which are only truths within the limits of relation .
he was, perhaps, six feet in height, and of a presence singularly commanding .
you will find that the discovery followed, almost immediately, the urgent communications sent to the evening paper .
one of the most remarkable instances was that of the murder of a young girl named marie rogêt .
i am burning with anxiety to hear the details of that stupendous event which threw you among us .
any man is a dolt who permits a   'secret' drawer to escape him in a search of this kind .
many years ago, it was the fashion to ridicule the idea of  ''love at first sight; '' but those who think, not less than those who feel deeply, have always advocated its existence .
she floated again from out the light and into the gloom which deepened momently and again her shadow fell from her into the ebony water, and became absorbed into its blackness .
on the other hand, there was much cause for anxiety as to what it might do in the house .
but these dreams were not altogether uninterrupted .
we are now prepared to view a second elopement if we know that an elopement has again taken place as indicating a renewal of the betrayer   's advances, rather than as the result of new proposals by a second individual we are prepared to regard it as a 'making up' of the old amour, rather than as the commencement of a new one .
yon dark, gloomy niche, too, yawns right opposite her chamber window what, then, could there be in its shadows in its architecture in its ivy wreathed and solemn cornices that the marchesa di mentoni had not wondered at a thousand times before?
it must be thus and not otherwise .
the sophists of the negative school who, through inability to create, have scoffed at creation, are now found the loudest in applause .
by means of this i was descending rapidly, and in apparent safety, when a huge hog, about whose rotund stomach, and indeed about whose whole air and physiognomy, there was something which reminded me of the angel of the odd, when this hog, i say, which hitherto had been quietly slumbering in the mud, took it suddenly into his head that his left shoulder needed scratching, and could find no more convenient rubbing post than that afforded by the foot of the ladder .
these reduced me at once to submission, and i am almost ashamed to confess that either through pain or vexation, there came a few tears into my eyes .
i could no longer doubt the doom prepared for me by monkish ingenuity in torture .
but, in spite of these things, it was a gay and magnificent revel .
i dispute, in particular, the reason educed by mathematical study .
as a duellist he had acquired who had fallen at his hands; but they were many .
we have then the primitive arrangement of the earth 's surface adapted to his blissful estate, as not existent but designed .
i spoke a few hurried but energetic words to my companions, and, having succeeded in gaining over a few of them to my purpose made a frantic sally from the kiosk .
when i came home at night my valet proposed to give me a flogging .
by the bye, monsieur, did i understand you to say that the system you have adopted, in place of the celebrated soothing system, was one of very rigorous severity? ''
driving a peg, with great nicety, into the ground, at the precise spot where the beetle fell, my friend now produced from his pocket a tape measure .
in the deepest slumber no in delirium no in a swoon no in death no even in the grave all is not lost .
the numerous deep gorges presented the appearance of lakes, on account of the dense vapors with which they were filled, and the pinnacles and crags to the south east, piled in inextricable confusion, resembling nothing so much as the giant cities of eastern fable .
his warehouse was the resort of all the principal people of the place, and especially of the editorial corps a body which inspires all about it with profound veneration and awe .
it was soon after dark, upon this same evening, that madame deluc, as well as her eldest son, heard the screams of a female in the vicinity of the inn .
i therefore, after due deliberation, consigned the article to the more dignified pages of the  ''lollipop, '' and awaited the event in anxiety, but with resignation .
the senses were unusually active, although eccentrically so assuming often each other 's functions at random .
at a period when such vagaries of thought most fully possessed me, and when we had been at work perhaps an hour and a half, we were again interrupted by the violent howlings of the dog .
now this calculus is, in its essence, purely mathematical; and thus we have the anomaly of the most rigidly exact in science applied to the shadow and spirituality of the most intangible in speculation .
the latter could not be improved .
beyond all things, i have been warned of the danger which would result from giving him reason to suspect our design . ''
the  ''soothing system, '' with important modifications, has been resumed at the chateau; yet i cannot help agreeing with monsieur maillard, that his own  ''treatment '' was a very capital one of its kind .
casting my eyes upwards, i beheld a spectacle which froze the current of my blood .
the automaton chess player was invented in , by baron kempelen, a nobleman of presburg, in hungary, who afterwards disposed of it, together with the secret of its operations, to its present possessor .
 ''he is coming '' said somebody on the staircase .
not even these well contrived securities sufficed to save from the uttermost agonies of living inhumation, a wretch to these agonies foredoomed there arrived an epoch as often before there had arrived in which i found myself emerging from total unconsciousness into the first feeble and indefinite sense of existence .
to every request, a positive  ''no '' was his immediate answer, but in the end in the long, long end there were exceedingly few requests which he refused .
this behavior on the part of my eye in the gutter was not only irritating on account of its manifest insolence and shameful ingratitude, but was also exceedingly inconvenient on account of the sympathy which always exists between two eyes of the same head, however far apart .
 ''entirely, '' said the prefect .
whereupon the whole company maintained a dead silence for nearly a minute .
the radiance was that of the full, setting, and blood red moon, which now shone vividly through that once barely discernible fissure, of which i have before spoken as extending from the roof of the building, in a zigzag direction, to the base .
yes, fairest and best beloved una,  ''born again . ''
we made the best of it, and passed the night on board .
the hearts of the stoutest of our race beat violently within their bosoms .
and she knew all this, but did not upbraid; she seemed conscious of my weakness or my folly, and, smiling, called it fate .
it was not that i feared to look upon things horrible, but that i grew aghast lest there should be nothing to see .
 ''yesterday indeed you are out '' uncle .
 ''the region of which i speak is a dreary region in libya, by the borders of the river zaire .
he was propped up in the bed by pillows .
 ''thirteen '' said he  .  ''der teufel '' gasped the little old gentlemen, turning pale, dropping their pipes, and putting down all their right legs from over their left knees.
having thus inserted a portion of the cloth forming the upper part of the bag, i refastened the loops not to the hoop, for that would have been impossible, since the cloth now intervened but to a series of large buttons, affixed to the cloth itself, about three feet below the mouth of the bag, the intervals between the buttons having been made to correspond to the intervals between the loops .
i have no suspicion of this person; but let us proceed methodically .
meantime the cabbages all turned very red in the face, and it seemed as if old nick himself had taken possession of every thing in the shape of a timepiece .
i did not receive the expected message from the captain for nearly a week .
 ''on the spot which i intended each of the smaller casks to occupy respectively during the inflation of the balloon, i privately dug a hole two feet deep; the holes forming in this manner a circle twenty five feet in diameter .
it was just seven, by my watch, when we weighed and started for home, so as to make the worst of the ström at slack water, which we knew would be at eight .
it will be proper that i submit to the reader some passages which embody the suggestion alluded to .
and this is indeed the more necessary, as with the hope of enlisting public sympathy in behalf of the inhabitants, i design here to give a history of the calamitous events which have so lately occurred within its limits .
i hastened to prevent an intrusion, and then immediately returned to my dying antagonist .
as it was, i assumed the cryptograph to be english .
m    . valdemar, who has resided principally at harlaem, n.y., since the year , is or was particularly noticeable for the extreme spareness of his person his lower limbs much resembling those of john randolph; and, also, for the whiteness of his whiskers, in violent contrast to the blackness of his hair the latter, in consequence, being very generally mistaken for a wig.
who are you, pray, that i, duc de l   'omelette, prince de foie gras, just come of age, author of the 'mazurkiad,' and member of the academy, should divest myself at your bidding of the sweetest pantaloons ever made by bourdon, the daintiest robe de chambre ever put together by rombert to say nothing of the taking my hair out of paper not to mention the trouble i should have in drawing off my gloves? ''
the scene of the two outrages will naturally be supposed identical .
but if the vicinity of the city is so beset during the working days of the week, how much more so on the sabbath it is now especially that, released from the claims of labor, or deprived of the customary opportunities of crime, the town blackguard seeks the precincts of the town, not through love of the rural, which in his heart he despises, but by way of escape from the restraints and conventionalities of society .
mr  . l l the student swooned.
but it 's all cum ob do bug . ''
a large mirror, so at first it seemed to me in my confusion now stood where none had been perceptible before; and, as i stepped up to it in extremity of terror, mine own image, but with features all pale and dabbled in blood, advanced to meet me with a feeble and tottering gait .
it was late in the afternoon when we reached it; as this quarter is at a great distance from that in which we resided .
thus speaking, and having carefully shaded his lamp, he hurried to one of the casements, and threw it freely open to the storm .
yet to calculate is not in itself to analyse .
the two cusps appeared tapering in a very sharp faint prolongation, each exhibiting its farthest extremity faintly illuminated by the solar rays, before any part of the dark hemisphere was visible .
let it be one of our first purposes to discover .
upon my taking hold of it, it gave me a sharp bite, which caused me to let it drop .
i found, upon trial, that the powers of utterance which, upon my inability to proceed in the conversation with my wife, i then concluded to be totally destroyed, were in fact only partially impeded, and i discovered that had i, at that interesting crisis, dropped my voice to a singularly deep guttural, i might still have continued to her the communication of my sentiments; this pitch of voice the guttural depending, i find, not upon the current of the breath, but upon a certain spasmodic action of the muscles of the throat .
for god is but a great will pervading all things by nature of its intentness .
the result of the natural style of gardening, is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities in the prevalence of a beautiful harmony and order, than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles .
he wishes to prove that marie is not assassinated not that the corpse was not .
this, of course, was a matter of little consequence; for had i even been able to place a window at top, the balloon itself would have prevented my making any use of it .
 ''it was the fruiterer, '' replied my friend,  ''who brought you to the conclusion that the mender of soles was not of sufficient height for xerxes et id genus omne . ''
we must not regard it as a quality, but as a sentiment: it is the perception, in thinking beings, of the adaptation of matter to their organization .
but when we consider the arrangement of the candles, another reason immediately presents itself .
the crowd had departed .
what could he be dreaming of?
 ''for its practical value it depends upon this, '' replied dupin;  ''and the prefect and his cohort fail so frequently, first, by default of this identification, and, secondly, by ill admeasurement, or rather through non admeasurement, of the intellect with which they are engaged .
he was a penny a liner, and a buffoon .
wanting the radiant lustre of her eyes, letters, lambent and golden, grew duller than saturnian lead .
 ''i am now awaiting, '' continued he, looking toward the door of our apartment  ''i am now awaiting a person who, although perhaps not the perpetrator of these butcheries, must have been in some measure implicated in their perpetration .
the eulogies of mr  . crab, such was the editor 's name, were, however, by no means fulsomely indiscriminate.
at one period i thought he really intended to quack .
it is not the engagement, but the severe cold with which i perceive you are afflicted .
it was this: or, rather, thus was it carried into execution .
each is sure that it was not the voice of one of his own countrymen .
compromised the case of mr  . snap.
 ''this then, '' i said thoughtfully,  ''is the very reason why the waters of this lake grow blacker with age, and more melancholy as the hours run on . ''
there are no dreams in aidenn but it is here whispered that, of this infinity of matter, the sole purpose is to afford infinite springs, at which the soul may allay the thirst to know, which is for ever unquenchable within it since to quench it, would be to extinguish the soul 's self .
end of text notes to hans pfaal note strictly speaking, there is but little similarity between the above sketchy trifle and the celebrated    ''moon story '' of mr    . locke; but as both have the character of hoaxes although the one is in a tone of banter, the other of downright earnest, and as both hoaxes are on the same subject, the moon moreover, as both attempt to give plausibility by scientific detail the author of  ''hans pfaall '' thinks it necessary to say, in self defence, that his own jeu d'esprit was published in the  ''southern literary messenger '' about three weeks before the commencement of mr. l's in the  ''new york sun. '' fancying a likeness which, perhaps, does not exist, some of the new york papers copied  ''hans pfaall, '' and collated it with the  ''moon hoax, '' by way of detecting the writer of the one in the writer of the other.
all experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days for decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the water .
the murderers did escape from one of these windows .
he was civil, even cordial in his manner, but just then, i was more intent on observing the arrangements of the dwelling which had so much interested me, than the personal appearance of the tenant .
in the intervals of this period, i made every endeavor to conciliate the three creditors who had given me so much annoyance .
it is impossible that a person so well known to thousands as this young woman was, should have passed three blocks without some one having seen her; and any one who saw her would have remembered it, for she interested all who knew her .
but then there was a taper ankle, a sandalled foot .
excellent paths of the same material not nicely adapted, but with the velvety sod filling frequent intervals between the stones, led hither and thither from the house, to a crystal spring about five paces off, to the road, or to one or two out houses that lay to the north, beyond the brook, and were thoroughly concealed by a few locusts and catalpas .
i felt my wrists for the bell rope: it was not to be found .
with the rest of the adventure i believe you are as well acquainted as myself . ''
to breathe it for more than an hour, at the farthest, would be a matter of impossibility, or, if even this term could be extended to an hour and a quarter, the most ruinous consequences might ensue .
in coin there was rather more than four hundred and fifty thousand dollars estimating the value of the pieces, as accurately as we could, by the tables of the period .
appeared to be that of a german .
upon second thought, however, she opens her purse strings and delivers the specie .
it was also evident, that the water thus falling from a height of more than four feet, could not do otherwise than fall upon my face, and that the sure consequences would be, to waken me up instantaneously, even from the soundest slumber in the world .
unquestionably, it was in the earth 's dotage that i died .
when reason returned with the morning when i had slept off the fumes of the night 's debauch i experienced a sentiment half of horror, half of remorse, for the crime of which i had been guilty; but it was, at best, a feeble and equivocal feeling, and the soul remained untouched .
 ''full well alas do i remember it, '' i exclaimed, pressing passionately the delicate hand which offered the glasses for my inspection .
his hands were enormously large .
during the whole of a dull, dark, and soundless day in the autumn of the year, when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens, i had been passing alone, on horseback, through a singularly dreary tract of country; and at length found myself, as the shades of the evening drew on, within view of the melancholy house of usher .
    'there must be something wrong,' i said, 'about the nail .'
it was clear that we were already within the influence of the comet; yet we lived .
they did not float as i had expected; but dropped down perpendicularly, like a bullet, en masse, and with the greatest velocity being out of sight in a very few seconds .
it appears to me a miracle of miracles that our enormous bulk is not swallowed up at once and forever .
she became excessively intimate with most of the ladies; and, to my profound astonishment, evinced no equivocal disposition to coquet with the men .
i quivered not in a muscle .
one of these crucibles was nearly full of lead in a state of fusion, but not reaching up to the aperture of the tube, which was close to the brim .
owing to the vast antiquity, the style of architecture is somewhat odd, but it is not for that reason the less strikingly picturesque .
of course he had some principle of guessing; and this lay in mere observation and admeasurement of the astuteness of his opponents .
his frankness would have led him to disabuse every inquirer of such prejudice; but his indolent humor forbade all farther agitation of a topic whose interest to himself had long ceased .
just before dawn, on each of the two nights of which i speak, i distinctly heard mr  . wyatt replace the lid upon the oblong box, and force the nails into their old places by means of the muffled mallet.
by far the greater number of the articles were shattered in the most extraordinary way so chafed and roughened as to have the appearance of being stuck full of splinters but then i distinctly recollected that there were some of them which were not disfigured at all .
sat down then, and winked at the lean lady, when i had the high satisfaction of finding him lift me up by the nape of the neck, and fling me over into the pit .
but ellison maintained that the richest, the truest, and most natural, if not altogether the most extensive province, had been unaccountably neglected .
the senses were oppressed by mingled and conflicting perfumes, reeking up from strange convolute censers, together with multitudinous flaring and flickering tongues of emerald and violet fire .
all the difference is, that his pipe is somewhat bigger than theirs and he can make a greater smoke .
these would have been of great assistance at such times, in using the sweeps, as well as afterward in fishing but, somehow, although we ran the risk ourselves, we had not the heart to let the young ones get into the danger for, after all is said and done, it was a horrible danger, and that is the truth .
i thrust a torch through the remaining aperture and let it fall within .
 ''for some moments we were completely deluged, as i say, and all this time i held my breath, and clung to the bolt .
but there is something excessively unphilosophical in the attempt on the part of le moniteur, to rebut the general assertion of l 'etoile, by a citation of particular instances militating against that assertion .
i have been filled with it by certain sounds from stringed instruments, and not unfrequently by passages from books .
she had been subjected, it said, to brutal violence .
will she not be here anon?
    'it is folly to suppose,' he says, 'that the murder, if murder was committed on her body, could have been consummated soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight .'
when these qualities are unavailing, their schemes fail .
the ground was moist and slippery .
one evening, leaning over the taffrail, i observed a very singular, isolated cloud, to the n  .w.
there is a space of about three inches between the top of the drawer as seen from the exterior, and the bottom of the cupboard a space which must be included in the height of the drawer .
minuteness: your diddler is minute .
when the game, however, is obvious, he has time to look about him, and, accordingly, we see the head shake and the eyes roll  . .
 ''yes, massa, him dead as de door nail done up for sartain done departed dis here life . ''
i found this machine, however, to require considerable alteration before it could be adapted to the purposes to which i intended making it applicable .
     'we have no evidence,' he says, 'that marie rogêt was in the land of the living after nine o'clock on sunday, june the twenty second .'
onward still onward stalked the grim legs, making the desolate solemnity echo and re echo with yells like the terrific war whoop of the indian: and onward, still onward rolled the dumpy tarpaulin, hanging on to the doublet of his more active companion, and far surpassing the latter 's most strenuous exertions in the way of vocal music, by bull roarings in basso, from the profundity of his stentorian lungs .
immediately beneath me in the ocean, lay a small black object, slightly oblong in shape, seemingly about the size, and in every way bearing a great resemblance to one of those childish toys called a domino .
they are undoubtedly part of peaaema .
alas i but too soon discovered .
in a foreign climate, being unknown, i might, with some probability of success, endeavor to conceal my unhappy calamity a calamity calculated, even more than beggary, to estrange the affections of the multitude, and to draw down upon the wretch the well merited indignation of the virtuous and the happy .
nevertheless, i slept soundly, and the whole of my vision for it was no dream, and no nightmare arose naturally from the circumstances of my position from my ordinary bias of thought and from the difficulty, to which i have alluded, of collecting my senses, and especially of regaining my memory, for a long time after awaking from slumber .
perhaps a couple of blows with a mattock were sufficient, while his coadjutors were busy in the pit; perhaps it required a dozen who shall tell? '' in the consideration of the faculties and impulses of the prima mobilia of the human soul, the phrenologists have failed to make room for a propensity which, although obviously existing as a radical, primitive, irreducible sentiment, has been equally overlooked by all the moralists who have preceded them .
for my own part, i had charge of a couple of dark lanterns, while legrand contented himself with the scarabæus, which he carried attached to the end of a bit of whip cord; twirling it to and fro, with the air of a conjuror, as he went .
what must have been the astonishment of all, then, when having proceeded a few fathoms from the ship, mr   . wyatt stood up in the stern sheets, and coolly demanded of captain hardy that the boat should be put back for the purpose of taking in his oblong box  ''sit down, mr. wyatt, '' replied the captain, somewhat sternly,  ''you will capsize us if you do not sit quite still.
in this dilemma i had recourse to paternal aid; and, after some hours of mature thought, my father and myself thus constructed the poem:  ''to pen an ode upon the  ''oil of bob '' is all sorts of a job .
having, in some measure, satisfied my curiosity in regard to the extent, situation, and general appearance of the city, i had leisure to survey the church in which i was, and the delicate architecture of the steeple .
i found myself sitting in the library, and again sitting there alone .
he did not even introduce me to his wife this courtesy devolving, per force, upon his sister marian a very sweet and intelligent girl, who, in a few hurried words, made us acquainted .
the cure was, to insist upon the thing as a fact to accuse the patient of stupidity in not sufficiently perceiving it to be a fact and thus to refuse him any other diet for a week than that which properly appertains to a chicken .
beyond doubt there is nothing of a similar nature so greatly tasking the faculty of analysis .
it is needless to say that i became excessively alarmed, having, in the first instance, attributed the noise to the bursting of the balloon .
i was forced, in a manner, to wink and to blink, whether i would or not, in exact concert with the scoundrelly thing that lay just under my nose .
there is a belfry man whose sole duty is to attend to it; but this duty is the most perfect of sinecures for the clock of vondervotteimittis was never yet known to have anything the matter with it .
pundit assures me that the same ideas were put nearly in the same way, about a thousand years ago, by an irish philosopher called furrier, on account of his keeping a retail shop for cat peltries and other furs .
the visiter, shooting suddenly into this bay from out the gloom of the ravine, is delighted but astounded by the full orb of the declining sun, which he had supposed to be already far below the horizon, but which now confronts him, and forms the sole termination of an otherwise limitless vista seen through another chasm like rift in the hills .
these rumors must have had some foundation in fact .
 ''yes, '' replied the prefect;  ''and the power thus attained has, for some months past, been wielded, for political purposes, to a very dangerous extent .
 ''the guide rope remedies the difficulty in the simplest manner conceivable .
all inquiry, except that of a private character, was of course immediately hushed .
one party playing requires another to find a given word the name of town, river, state or empire any word, in short, upon the motley and perplexed surface of the chart .
we were, however, well aware of having made farther to the southward than any previous navigators, and felt great amazement at not meeting with the usual impediments of ice .
 ''i beg a thousand pardons for the suspicion, '' i replied,  ''but of course you will know how to excuse me .
i had indeed spent some money and great labor in adapting the apparatus to the object intended, and confidently looked forward to its successful application, if i could manage to complete the voyage within any reasonable period .
no doubt the true object was to admit the arm of an attendant, to adjust, when necessary, the hands of the clock from within .
 ''the paper is spread out upon a plane surface; but the human throat is cylindrical .
i struggled to reason off the nervousness which had dominion over me .
i felt, also, that the whole train of thought, which i was at some pains in detailing to you just now, concerning the invariable principle of policial action in searches for articles concealed i felt that this whole train of thought would necessarily pass through the mind of the minister .
 ''madam ''  ''or a more delicate sense of the true beauties of shakespeare?
the results of the analysis are undoubtedly, in the main, just; but we can only account for brewster 's pronouncing the essay a thorough and satisfactory explanation, by supposing him to have bestowed upon it a very cursory and inattentive perusal .
 ''so help me god, '' said he, after a brief pause,  ''i will tell you all i know about this affair; but i do not expect you to believe one half i say i would be a fool indeed if i did .
of the dungeons there had been strange things narrated fables i had always deemed them but yet strange, and too ghastly to repeat, save in a whisper .
 ''but what have we here?
the prophecy seemed to imply if it implied anything a final triumph on the part of the already more powerful house; and was of course remembered with the more bitter animosity by the weaker and less influential .
then the mere consciousness of existence, without thought a condition which lasted long .
the reason which, most probably, would be assigned for this circumstance, if the question were demanded, is, that were the antagonist otherwise situated, his person would intervene between the machine and the spectators, and preclude the latter from a distinct view .
while he did this, i retained my seat by the fire, for i was still chilly .
sleep came not near my couch while the hours waned and waned away .
what the wasting tree is to the water that imbibes its shade, growing thus blacker by what it preys upon, may not the life of the fay be to the death which engulfs it? ''
it was thrust carelessly, and even, as it seemed, contemptuously, into one of the uppermost divisions of the rack .
the idea which the raconteur has either failed to entertain clearly, or has sacrificed in its expression to his national love of point, is, doubtless, the very tenable one that the higher order of music is the most thoroughly estimated when we are exclusively alone .
three days elapsed, and nothing was heard of her .
in person, he is short and stout, with large, fat, blue eyes, sandy hair and whiskers, a wide but pleasing mouth, fine teeth, and i think a roman nose .
but the big bell had not done with them yet .
madly flushed with cards and intoxication, i was in the act of insisting upon a toast of more than wonted profanity, when my attention was suddenly diverted by the violent, although partial unclosing of the door of the apartment, and by the eager voice of a servant from without .
for many years past he had been attended by a physician, named templeton an old gentleman, perhaps seventy years of age whom he had first encountered at saratoga, and from whose attention, while there, he either received, or fancied that he received, great benefit .
i then filled up the remaining holes, and placed the barrels over them in their destined situation .
the ladies, as usual, talked a great deal .
it is a happiness to wonder; it is a happiness to dream .
a strong and lofty wall girdled it in .
farther back within the domain, the vision is impeded by an impenetrable screen of foliage .
but, in addition to what i have already urged in regard to encke 's comet and the zodiacal light, i had been strengthened in my opinion by certain observations of mr  . schroeter, of lilienthal.
but now there came from out the niche a low laugh that erected the hairs upon my head .
i believe the old villain loved me as his own child nearly if not quite as well as he loved kate but it was a dog 's existence that he led me, after all .
the   'castle' consisted of an irregular assemblage of cliffs and rocks one of the latter being quite remarkable for its height as well as for its insulated and artificial appearance i clambered to its apex, and then felt much at a loss as to what should be next done .
we make chance a matter of absolute calculation .
about the throat were bruises and impressions of fingers .
if he dares to reply, you can tell him from lucan here it is that speeches are mere anemonae verborum, anemone words .
my deficiencies of vision were then explained; for these were notorious, although i was entirely ignorant of their notoriety, and my good old relative discovered, much to her chagrin, that she had been deceived in supposing me aware of her identity, and that i had been merely making a fool of myself in making open love, in a theatre, to an old woman unknown .
of course, much depends upon the selection of a spot with capabilities .
she relented; but there was yet an obstacle, she said, which she felt assured i had not properly considered .
she hastens to make the purchase, gets a bill and receipt, leaves her address, with a request that the article be sent home as speedily as possible, and retires amid a profusion of bows from the shopkeeper .
but he, the painter, took glory in his work, which went on from hour to hour, and from day to day .
and the man shuddered, and turned his face away, and fled afar off, in haste, so that i beheld him no more . ''
as i hope to live, her talents were of no common order her powers of mind were gigantic .
m  . beauvais as it appears from your notes had some personal interviews with the editor of l 'etoile, and offended him by venturing an opinion that the corpse, notwithstanding the theory of the editor, was, in sober fact, that of marie.
we thus gain another letter, r, represented by , with the words   'the tree' in juxtaposition .
i shall say nothing more upon this point; and, as the evidence fully rebuts the assertion of l 'etoile, touching the matter of apathy on the part of the mother and other relatives an apathy inconsistent with the supposition of their believing the corpse to be that of the perfumery girl we shall now proceed as if the question of identity were settled to our perfect satisfaction . ''
in stature she was tall, somewhat slender, and, in her latter days, even emaciated .
upon jupiter 's again attempting to muzzle him, he made furious resistance, and, leaping into the hole, tore up the mould frantically with his claws .
in the morning, i procured, at the prefecture, a full report of all the evidence elicited, and, at the various newspaper offices, a copy of every paper in which, from first to last, had been published any decisive information in regard to this sad affair .
conscious of having deserved punishment, it seemed desirous of concealing its bloody deeds, and skipped about the chamber in an agony of nervous agitation; throwing down and breaking the furniture as it moved, and dragging the bed from the bedstead .
how strangely, sweet una, you echo my words i observe, too, a vacillation in your step a joyous inquietude in your eyes .
for the fine arts, and especially for the belles lettres, he entertained a profound contempt .
at length there came into my head one of those exquisitely original ideas which now and then will permeate the brain of a man of genius .
 ''you have had a good look at the whirl now, '' said the old man,  ''and if you will creep round this crag, so as to get in its lee, and deaden the roar of the water, i will tell you a story that will convince you i ought to know something of the moskoe ström . ''
the edge of the whirl was represented by a broad belt of gleaming spray; but no particle of this slipped into the mouth of the terrific funnel, whose interior, as far as the eye could fathom it, was a smooth, shining, and jet black wall of water, inclined to the horizon at an angle of some forty five degrees, speeding dizzily round and round with a swaying and sweltering motion, and sending forth to the winds an appalling voice, half shriek, half roar, such as not even the mighty cataract of niagara ever lifts up in its agony to heaven .
indeed the locality of our retirement had been carefully kept a secret from my own former associates; and it had been many years since dupin had ceased to know or be known in paris .
besides all this, there was a vast quantity of solid gold ornaments; nearly two hundred massive finger and earrings; rich chains thirty of these, if i remember; eighty three very large and heavy crucifixes; five gold censers of great value; a prodigious golden punch bowl, ornamented with richly chased vine leaves and bacchanalian figures; with two sword handles exquisitely embossed, and many other smaller articles which i cannot recollect .
a little reading of the   'dial' will carry you a great way .
i was merciless, but am pitiful .
i have mentioned some few of the more prominent and august calamities on record; but in these it is the extent, not less than the character of the calamity, which so vividly impresses the fancy .
p . what then shall i ask?
some few are mountebanks .
a steamboat is casting loose from the wharf .
here legrand touched each of jupiter 's eyes .
altogether, he looks, speaks, and acts as little like   'a misanthrope' as any man i ever saw .
their tails, at a legislative price, now bring me in a good income; for i have discovered a way, in which, by means of macassar oil, i can force three crops in a year .
the house, i have said, was old and irregular .
upon awaking, and stretching forth an arm, i found beside me a loaf and a pitcher with water .
as it dangled among the cordage of the bell, i fancied it alive .
i am constitutionally nervous this, with me, is a family failing, and i can 't help it .
it was when the streets were full of people, when she went out    ....
i can promise you, too, some good singing .
those who have been nauseated with a sad dose on the same august topic from the goose quill of the editor of the  ''gad fly '' will do well to compare the two compositions .
it was his strong point his virtue; and it would have required all the logic of a brownson to convince him that it was   'anything else  .' i have shown that touch and go bullet head was a wise man; and the only occasion on which he did not prove infallible, was when, abandoning that legitimate home for all wise men, the east, he migrated to the city of alexander the great o nopolis, or some place of a similar title, out west.
  ''well '' i said, after contemplating it for some minutes,  ''this is a strange scarabæus, i must confess: new to me: never saw anything like it before unless it was a skull, or a death's head which it more nearly resembles than anything else that has come under my observation . ''
i endeavored in vain to make it follow the direction of my hand .
 ''you will say now, of course, that i dreamed; but not so .
it is true that he may not arrive; but the probability is that he will .
his mouth should not be called small, nor his ears short .
at all events he disappeared instantaneously from the face of the earth, and no man has seen even the ghost of him since .
the copy is brief, and being headed with  ''lost '' only, indicates no   . dick, or no. harry street, as the locality at which the owner may be seen.
it lay considerably to the north of west, and was where the setting sun made its way, as i have before described, into the amphitheatre, through a cleanly cut natural cleft in the granite embankment; this fissure might have been ten yards wide at its widest point, so far as the eye could trace it .
i felt that my vision grew dim, that my reason wandered; and it was only by a violent effort that i at length succeeded in nerving myself to the task which duty thus once more had pointed out .
you perceive that, by a trifling modification thus or thus it can be adapted to the eyes in the form of spectacles, or worn in the waistcoat pocket as an eye glass .
  ''all dat done, massa will; mighty easy ting for to put de bug fru de hole look out for him dare below '' during this colloquy no portion of jupiter's person could be seen; but the beetle, which he had suffered to descend, was now visible at the end of the string, and glistened, like a globe of burnished gold, in the last rays of the setting sun, some of which still faintly illumined the eminence upon which we stood .
there are chords in the hearts of the most reckless which cannot be touched without emotion .
 ''be off '' said the seventh .
he would scorn to employ those of another .
the gruff voice was that of a frenchman .
i have said thus much, that in some measure i may answer your question, that i may explain to you why i am here, that i may assign to you something that shall have at least the faint aspect of a cause for my wearing these fetters, and for my tenanting this cell of the condemned .
alas we had fallen upon the most evil of all our evil days .
i thrust my arms wildly above and around me in all directions .
 ''and here we must refer to an observation of le commerciel; an observation upon which i have already, in some measure, commented .
as poet and mathematician, he would reason well; as mere mathematician, he could not have reasoned at all, and thus would have been at the mercy of the prefect . ''
the valet now threw open a door and ushered me into the presence of his master .
one small, fairy foot, alone visible, barely touched the earth; and, scarcely discernible in the brilliant atmosphere which seemed to encircle and enshrine her loveliness, floated a pair of the most delicately imagined wings .
from a third, which was the composition of some blind man or other, either a greek or a choctaw i cannot be at the pains of remembering every trifle exactly i took about fifty verses beginning with   ''achilles' wrath, '' and  ''grease, '' and something else .
it is the mal practice of the courts to confine evidence and discussion to the bounds of apparent relevancy .
not that she was ever serious upon this point and i mention the matter at all for no better reason than that it happens, just now, to be remembered .
rather a small but still a scientific diddle is this .
 ''hem oh well quite la même cho o ose, as we say in france .
but first let me tell of the rooms in which it was held .
 ''the view of the earth, at this period of my ascension, was beautiful indeed .
 ''i would be an ungrateful villain if i did, '' i replied with enthusiasm .
it was deducible from what they knew, that to a being of infinite understanding one to whom the perfection of the algebraic analysis lay unfolded there could be no difficulty in tracing every impulse given the air and the ether through the air to the remotest consequences at any even infinitely remote epoch of time .
on the left wrist were two circular excoriations, apparently the effect of ropes, or of a rope in more than one volution .
to the right and left, as far as the eye could reach, there lay outstretched, like ramparts of the world, lines of horridly black and beetling cliff, whose character of gloom was but the more forcibly illustrated by the surf which reared high up against its white and ghastly crest, howling and shrieking forever .
there is no passion in nature so demoniacally impatient, as that of him who, shuddering upon the edge of a precipice, thus meditates a plunge .
i was hastening to anticipate a second disturbance, when a page of mentoni 's household burst into the room, and faltered out, in a voice choking with emotion, the incoherent words,  ''my mistress my mistress poisoned poisoned oh, beautiful oh, beautiful aphrodite '' bewildered, i flew to the ottoman, and endeavored to arouse the sleeper to a sense of the startling intelligence .
after hand cuffing him, they searched his room, or rather rooms, for it appears he occupied all the mansarde .
rap out the sentence, with a huge oath, and by way of ultimatum at the good for nothing dunder headed villain who couldn 't understand your plain english in relation to the chicken bone .
in halls such as these in a bridal chamber such as this i passed, with the lady of tremaine, the unhallowed hours of the first month of our marriage passed them with but little disquietude .
the teeming brain of childhood requires no external world of incident to occupy or amuse it; and the apparently dismal monotony of a school was replete with more intense excitement than my riper youth has derived from luxury, or my full manhood from crime .
i have something to tell you, yet scarcely know how to tell it, or whether i should tell it at all .
villain at rome, with how untimely, yet with how spectral an officiousness, stepped he in between me and my ambition at vienna, too at berlin and at moscow where, in truth, had i not bitter cause to curse him within my heart?
and in this expectation i was not at all deceived .
throwing them aside, i soon uncovered a quantity of building stone and mortar .
glad to get off so easily, and confused by a hundred duties pressing upon him all at once, he discharges the claim forthwith .
 ''i presume it is supererogatory to seek here eyeing the folds of the garment with a bitter smile for any farther evidence of your skill .
as the old man spoke, i became aware of a loud and gradually increasing sound, like the moaning of a vast herd of buffaloes upon an american prairie; and at the same moment i perceived that what seamen term the chopping character of the ocean beneath us, was rapidly changing into a current which set to the eastward .
the staircase had been surmounted, and there were now only three or four more upward steps intervening between us and the summit .
in the excitement of my opium dreams for i was habitually fettered in the shackles of the drug i would call aloud upon her name, during the silence of the night, or among the sheltered recesses of the glens by day, as if, through the wild eagerness, the solemn passion, the consuming ardor of my longing for the departed, i could restore her to the pathway she had abandoned ah, could it be forever?
overreaching the wide horizon as the rainbow how is it that from beauty i have derived a type of unloveliness?
the worm was carefully fed on mulberries kind of fruit resembling a water melon and, when sufficiently fat, was crushed in a mill .
pressing the spring, i gently raised the sash for a few inches; the head went up with it, remaining firm in its bed .
now, then, did my spirit fully and freely burn with more than all the fires of her own .
but mr  . ellison imagined that the richest, and altogether the most natural and most suitable province, had been blindly neglected.
this i thought strange, for there was a stiff southerly breeze; but as  ''the circumstances '' were not forthcoming, although i pumped for them with much perseverance, i had nothing to do but to return home and digest my impatience at leisure .
turning to the number which designated the oval portrait, i there read the vague and quaint words which follow:  ''she was a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full of glee .
this craving gathers strength as the moments fly .
in an instant, a treasure of incalculable value lay gleaming before us .
i paused; i considered; and i began to doubt .
and let us now trace the boat picked up by the bargeman on the morning of monday the twenty third of june, and which was removed from the barge office, without the cognizance of the officer in attendance, and without the rudder, at some period prior to the discovery of the corpse .
this is an ordinary, although an atrocious instance of crime .
he rubbed the arm and found hair upon it something as indefinite, we think, as can readily be imagined as little conclusive as finding an arm in the sleeve .
we cannot, therefore, doubt mr  . maelzel 's ability, and we must necessarily suppose that he intentionally suffered his chess player to remain the same artificial and unnatural figure which baron kempelen no doubt also through design originally made it.
i remember the buzz of curiosity which his advent excited within the college precincts on the night of the twenty fifth of june .
she returned my bow, however, under the impression that, by some odd accident, i had discovered her identity .
he was leaning with his arms folded, over the rim of the car; and with a pipe in his mouth, at which he puffed leisurely, seemed to be upon excellent terms with himself and the universe .
and what is it you are talking about?   ''  ''az vor ow i com'd ere, '' replied the figure,  ''dat iz none of your pizzness; and as vor vat i be talking apout, i be talk apout vat i tink proper; and as vor who i be, vy dat is de very ting i com'd here for to let you zee for yourzelf . ''
p   . i wish you would explain yourself, mr. vankirk.
i endeavored, but of course in vain, to look through the aperture .
  ''can't do '' said i,  ''what do you mean?
l 'histoire en est brève .
a great central orb was, in fact, suggested; so far mudler was consistent .
the consciousness of being had grown hourly more indistinct, and that of mere locality had, in great measure, usurped its position .
in short, no position can be attained, from which an artistical eye, looking steadily, will not find matter of offence, in what is technically termed the composition of a natural landscape .
i know not how the entanglement took place, but so it was .
it will then be seen that the movement of the arm, which, in all other cases, immediately succeeds the motion in the shoulder, is withheld is not made although maelzel has not yet performed, on the board of the automaton, any move corresponding to the withdrawal of the antagonist .
we had been at sea seven days, and were now off cape hatteras, when there came a tremendously heavy blow from the southwest .
does it not seem singular how they should have failed to deduce from the works of god the vital fact that a perfect consistency must be an absolute truth how plain has been our progress since the late announcement of this proposition investigation has been taken out of the hands of the ground moles and given, as a task, to the true and only true thinkers, the men of ardent imagination .
and amid the crowd, and the clamor, and the general intricacy and confusion amid the million of black and yellow men, turbaned and robed, and of flowing beard, there roamed a countless multitude of holy filleted bulls, while vast legions of the filthy but sacred ape clambered, chattering and shrieking, about the cornices of the mosques, or clung to the minarets and oriels .
i asked, with a sad foreboding at heart .
the author of the   'oil of bob' is, we hear, thingum bob, esq  ., a gentleman of high genius, and a scholar.
it was an impulsive movement to gain time for thought to make sure that my vision had not deceived me to calm and subdue my fancy for a more sober and more certain gaze .
in the present case your application is the most obvious thing in the world .
the rush for the  ''sole paper which had the news, '' was something beyond even the prodigious; and, in fact, if as some assert the  ''victoria '' did not absolutely accomplish the voyage recorded, it will be difficult to assign a reason why she should not have accomplished it .
there was a dim mist over all the earth, and a warm glow upon the waters, and amid the rich october leaves of the forest, a rainbow from the firmament had surely fallen .
as for one lady, she obeyed monsieur maillard to the letter, and thrusting out her tongue, which was an excessively long one, held it very resignedly, with both hands, until the end of the entertainment .
the slope of the sides of the vast funnel became momently less and less steep .
the fury of the tempest immediately died away, and a dead calm sullenly succeeded .
but he is a good creature after all .
never to suffer would have been never to have been blessed .
the moves of the turk are not made at regular intervals of time, but accommodate themselves to the moves of the antagonist although this point of regularity so important in all kinds of mechanical contrivance, might have been readily brought about by limiting the time allowed for the moves of the antagonist .
the uproar increases .
the drawers of a bureau, which stood in one corner were open, and had been, apparently, rifled, although many articles still remained in them .
the young husband was frantic with grief but circumstances imperatively forbade the deferring his voyage to new york .
now these peculiar movements of the head and eyes are movements customary with persons engaged in meditation, and the ingenious baron kempelen would have adapted these movements were the machine a pure machine to occasions proper for their display that is, to occasions of complexity .
the air now became intolerably hot, and was loaded with spiral exhalations similar to those arising from heat iron .
my fame is universal .
in the widest and noblest sense, he was a poet .
i have said enough to convince you that ciphers of this nature are readily soluble, and to give you some insight into the rationale of their development .
he, the petitmaître no, the deity who sat as if carved in marble, et qui sourit, with his pale countenance, si amèrement?
at first i proceeded with extreme caution, for the floor, although seemingly of solid material, was treacherous with slime .
and lo from among those sable draperies where the sounds of the song departed, there came forth a dark and undefined shadow a shadow such as the moon, when low in heaven, might fashion from the figure of a man: but it was the shadow neither of man nor of god, nor of any familiar thing .
his croak thus o o o o gh o o o o gh was the finest note in the world b flat; and when he put his elbows upon the table thus after taking a glass or two of wine and distended his mouth, thus, and rolled up his eyes, thus, and winked them with excessive rapidity, thus, why then, sir, i take it upon myself to say, positively, that you would have been lost in admiration of the genius of the man . ''
the intellectual or logical man, rather than the understanding or observant man, set himself to imagine designs to dictate purposes to god .
in spasms such as these he had usually found relief from the application of mustard to the nervous centres, but to night this had been attempted in vain .
but for this consideration i should have begun my attempts with the spanish and french, as the tongues in which a secret of this kind would most naturally have been written by a pirate of the spanish main .
she had even sent me, in reply, one penned by her own exquisite fingers .
when nature could endure wakefulness no longer, it was with a struggle that i consented to sleep for i shuddered to reflect that, upon awaking, i might find myself the tenant of a grave .
well, during two nights not consecutive while i lay awake, i clearly saw mrs     . w., about eleven o 'clock upon each night, steal cautiously from the state room of mr. w., and enter the extra room, where she remained until daybreak, when she was called by her husband and went back.
it was most narrow at its northern extremity, opening out as it tended southwardly, but with no very precise regularity .
he reaches the grave .
now i 'll put you in the way of accomplishing this point .
it has been, or should be remarked, that, in the manner of the true gentleman, we are always aware of a difference from the bearing of the vulgar, without being at once precisely able to determine in what such difference consists .
this fact fully proves, that the intervention of maelzel, in performing the moves of the antagonist on the board of the automaton, is not essential to the movements of the automaton, that its movements are regulated by mind by some person who sees the board of the antagonist, that its movements are not regulated by the mind of maelzel, whose back was turned towards the antagonist at the withdrawal of his move  . .
as the evening wore away he became more and more absorbed in reverie, from which no sallies of mine could arouse him .
it is a radical, a primitive impulse elementary .
there was a grand turk from stamboul .
to be sure, our men of science are not quite so bigoted as those of old: oh, i have something so queer to tell you on this topic .
i endeavored to shriek; and my lips and my parched tongue moved convulsively together in the attempt but no voice issued from the cavernous lungs, which oppressed as if by the weight of some incumbent mountain, gasped and palpitated, with the heart, at every elaborate and struggling inspiration .
of these groups our two seamen formed, i think, the most interesting, if not the most conspicuous .
now this, i say, is a diddle minute for one entire moiety of the sum borrowed has to be paid to the gentleman who had the trouble of performing the insult, and who had then to stand still and be thrashed for performing it .
she finds a sofa well adapted to her views, and upon inquiring the price, is surprised and delighted to hear a sum named at least twenty per cent .
i was, at length, able to write a genuine blackwood article, and determined to do it forthwith .
 ''the measures adopted were not only the best of their kind, but carried out to absolute perfection .
i had turned to the right as i entered this road, and now, arising, i continued in the same direction .
where was i? ah i have been assured that snobbs is a mere corruption of zenobia, and that zenobia was a queen so am i   . dr. moneypenny always calls me the queen of the hearts and that zenobia, as well as psyche, is good greek, and that my father was  ''a greek, '' and that consequently i have a right to our patronymic, which is zenobia and not by any means snobbs.
she must have foreseen the chagrin of st  . eustache, the suspicion of all.
although the writer admits the distinction, he yet includes them all in the same category .
i well remember it had no trees, nor benches, nor anything similar within it .
we had now some discussion as to the propriety and feasibility of awakening him; but we had little difficulty in agreeing that no good purpose would be served by so doing .
 ''the supporting power being estimated at pounds, and the united weights of the party amounting only to about , there was left a surplus of , of which again was exhausted by ballast, arranged in bags of different sizes, with their respective weights marked upon them by cordage, barometers, telescopes, barrels containing provision for a fortnight, water casks, cloaks, carpet bags, and various other indispensable matters, including a coffee warmer, contrived for warming coffee by means of slack lime, so as to dispense altogether with fire, if it should be judged prudent to do so .
i observed that, upon her first elevation of the glass, she had seemed satisfied with a momentary inspection of my person, and was withdrawing the instrument, when, as if struck by a second thought, she resumed it, and so continued to regard me with fixed attention for the space of several minutes for five minutes, at the very least, i am sure .
that deity will be found in the interior of yonder building .
i observed that the aperture through which i had thrust my head was an opening in the dial plate of a gigantic clock, and must have appeared, from the street, as a large key hole, such as we see in the face of the french watches .
the fact is, i thought i really thought i thought at the time i thought then and have no reason for thinking otherwise now that the  ''goosetherumfoodle '' did make a mistake .
it may be sufficient here to say that it forms one of an infinite series of mistakes which arise in the path of reason through her propensity for seeking truth in detail .
we were to sail on the fifteenth of the month june, weather permitting; and on the fourteenth, i went on board to arrange some matters in my state room .
 ''it is well fortified; and in this respect is as much indebted to nature as to art  . '' very true.
upon rising from the piano after these miracles of vocal execution, she resumed her seat by my side; when i expressed to her, in terms of the deepest enthusiasm, my delight at her performance .
in the mean time i endeavored, but all in vain, to sound him in regard to the object of the expedition .
on the night of the day on which this cruel deed was done, i was aroused from sleep by the cry of fire .
the consideration of this dilemma gave me no little disquietude; and it will hardly be believed, that, after the dangers i had undergone, i should look upon this business in so serious a light, as to give up all hope of accomplishing my ultimate design, and finally make up my mind to the necessity of a descent .
he will reason thus:  'i am innocent; i am poor; my ourang outang is of great value to one in my circumstances a fortune of itself why should i lose it through idle apprehensions of danger?
when he arrives at the hippodrome, he will be crowned with the poetic wreath, in anticipation of his victory at the approaching olympics .
  ''the what? ''  ''de bug, i'm berry sartain dat massa will bin bit somewhere bout de head by dat goole bug . ''  ''and what cause have you, jupiter, for such a supposition? ''
the longer he gazed the more absorbing became the spell the more impossible did it appear that he could ever withdraw his glance from the fascination of that tapestry .
such, nevertheless, was the fact .
completely unnerved, i leaped to my feet; but the measured rocking movement of usher was undisturbed .
i say nothing more than what must be obvious to every dispassionate observer, when i repeat that the circumstance of the articles in question having remained undiscovered, for a longer period than from one sunday to another, in any thicket in the immediate neighborhood of paris, is to be looked upon as little less than miraculous .
they were both then lying on the sacking of the bedstead in the chamber where mademoiselle l  . was found.
grieved to the soul at having been, however innocently, the cause of pain to so eminent and so sensitive a man, i hastened to apologize, and to reassure him, by expressing my perfect coincidence with his views, as well as my entire appreciation of the delicacy of his position .
in the monarch thought 's dominion it stood there never seraph spread a pinion over fabric half so fair .
the audience arose; and the usual tumult immediately supervened .
it was just such a slip, indeed, as might have been chosen for a memorandum for a record of something to be long remembered and carefully preserved . ''
in short, i never yet encountered the mere mathematician who could be trusted out of equal roots, or one who did not clandestinely hold it as a point of his faith that xpx was absolutely and unconditionally equal to q  . say to one of these gentlemen, by way of experiment, if you please, that you believe occasions may occur where xpx is not altogether equal to q, and, having made him understand what you mean, get out of his reach as speedily as convenient, for, beyond doubt, he will endeavor to knock you down.
i had most imprudently made it known among my friends, she observed, that i desired her acquaintance thus that i did not possess it thus, again, there was no possibility of concealing the date of our first knowledge of each other .
in the first few degrees of this its progress, its surface is very sensibly flattened, farther on depressed into a plane, and finally, becoming not a little concave, it terminates, at the pole itself, in a circular centre, sharply defined, whose apparent diameter subtended at the balloon an angle of about sixty five seconds, and whose dusky hue, varying in intensity, was, at all times, darker than any other spot upon the visible hemisphere, and occasionally deepened into the most absolute and impenetrable blackness .
what magnificent events may ensue, it would be useless now to think of determining .
it appeared to me evidently in the nature of a rare atmosphere extending from the sun outward, beyond the orbit of venus at least, and i believed indefinitely farther .
for example, there may be a deposition of dew upon the silk, to the extent, even, of several hundred pounds; ballast has then to be thrown out, or the machine may descend .
might have been a woman 's voice .
besides, i had serious scruples of conscience .
the coach was crammed to repletion; but in the uncertain twilight the features of my companions could not be distinguished .
do you expect me to pay for what i did not take? ''
 ''upon this latter point, '' said madame lalande, laughingly,  ''you have been surely injudicious in coming to confession; for, without the confession, i take it for granted that no one would have accused you of the crime .
 ''this what? '' said i  .  ''this rabbit au chat. ''
its proprietor, roderick usher, had been one of my boon companions in boyhood; but many years had elapsed since our last meeting .
i have also to inform you that, whether it was calm weather or stormy, i found myself always immediately between the moon and the earth .
the moskoe ström whirlpool was about a quarter of a mile dead ahead but no more like the every day moskoe ström, than the whirl as you now see it is like a mill race .
now it was that those hideous shrieks arose upon the night, which had startled from slumber the inmates of the rue morgue .
the  ''strangeness, '' however, which i found in the eyes, was of a nature distinct from the formation, or the color, or the brilliancy of the features, and must, after all, be referred to the expression .
few deductions, if any, were made; and those few pertinaciously returning in upon the original object as a centre .
as it was, i involuntarily closed my eyes in horror .
the pallor of his countenance had assumed, if possible, a more ghastly hue but the luminousness of his eye had utterly gone out .
do not wake me let me die so '' i here felt the limbs and found them as rigid as ever .
besides, although i was evidently approaching the surface below me, it was with a speed by no means commensurate with the velocity i had at first so horribly conceived .
they looked like strips torn off  . ' here, inadvertently, le soleil has employed an exceedingly suspicious phrase.
he was never to be seen beyond the limits of his own domain, and, in this wide and social world, was utterly companionless unless, indeed, that unnatural, impetuous, and fiery colored horse, which he henceforward continually bestrode, had any mysterious right to the title of his friend .
 'tis berry hebby bug .
at length he arose, took a candle from the table, and proceeded to seat himself upon a sea chest in the farthest corner of the room .
and now, flatter and flatter grew the lozenge, with a rapidity that left me no time for contemplation .
the atlantic has been actually crossed in a balloon and this too without difficulty without any great apparent danger with thorough control of the machine and in the inconceivably brief period of seventy five hours from shore to shore by the energy of an agent at charleston, s             .c., we are enabled to be the first to furnish the public with a detailed account of this most extraordinary voyage, which was performed between saturday, the th instant, at , a.m., and , p.m., on tuesday, the th instant, by sir everard bringhurst; mr. osborne, a nephew of lord bentinck 's; mr. monck mason and mr. robert holland, the well known æronauts; mr. harrison ainsworth, author of  ''jack sheppard, '' c.; and mr. henson, the projector of the late unsuccessful flying machine with two seamen from woolwich in all, eight persons.
she had not sheltered herself in silence .
he is aware that he seldom passes so far as a dozen blocks from his own bureau, without being recognized and accosted .
the voice said  ''ha ha ha he he a very good joke indeed an excellent jest .
although upreared upon the summit of a wave more than a hundred times her own altitude, her apparent size exceeded that of any ship of the line or east indiaman in existence .
superstitious terror crept by degrees into the spirit of the old swede, and my own soul was wrapped up in silent wonder .
it is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to add, that all the suggestions attributed to brewster and herschel, in the beginning of the article, about  ''a transfusion of artificial light through the focal object of vision, '' etc   ., etc., belong to that species of figurative writing which comes, most properly, under the denomination of rigmarole.
the fool if he could not come himself, why, in the name of every thing rational, could he not have enclosed me a letter of presentation?
i glanced at its face by the moonlight, and then burst into tears as i flung it far away into the ocean .
in passing down an alley in the rear of the rue morgue, the fugitive   's attention was arrested by a light gleaming from the open window of madame l'espanaye's chamber, in the fourth story of her house .
 ''treason '' growled he of the coffin .
 ''oh, extra baggage, to be sure, '' i now said to myself  ''something he wishes not to be put in the hold something to be kept under his own eye ah, i have it a painting or so and this is what he has been bargaining about with nicolino, the italian jew . ''
p . does the idea of death afflict you?
in this respect, indeed, she might have been regarded as little less than the equal of the celebrated ninon de l 'enclos .
the herr johann hermann hermann commenced the perusal of this epistle with a scowl, which, however, was converted into a smile of the most ludicrous self complacency as he came to the rigmarole about injuriae per applicationem, per constructionem, et per se .
wilson 's retaliations in kind were many; and there was one form of his practical wit that disturbed me beyond measure .
he replied feebly, yet quite audibly,  ''yes, i wish to be .
upon its head, with red extended mouth and solitary eye of fire, sat the hideous beast whose craft had seduced me into murder, and whose informing voice had consigned me to the hangman .
i threw off an overcoat, took an arm chair by the crackling logs, and awaited patiently the arrival of my hosts .
at length, in taking leave, he takes also from the table the letter to which he had no claim .
i leaned to the right .
but this weakness was, luckily for me, of no very long duration .
the great  ''movement '' that was the cant term went on: a diseased commotion, moral and physical .
to create individual, thinking beings, it was necessary to incarnate portions of the divine mind .
i found it, however, altogether too expensive, and was not sure, upon the whole, whether cambric muslin with a coating of gum caoutchouc, was not equally as good .
in beauty of face no maiden ever equalled her .
in the meantime let us survey this image .
great decrease in the earth 's apparent diameter, which now subtended from the balloon an angle of very little more than twenty five degrees .
positive pleasure is a mere idea .
the narrow space immediately surrounding what had been the body, was now growing to be the body itself .
but, when i recovered from this stupor, there dawned upon me gradually a conviction which startled me even far more than the coincidence .
with a fair and strong breeze we soon ran into the little cove to the northward of fort moultrie, and a walk of some two miles brought us to the hut .
it may be observed, in passing, that this prodigious glass is said to have been molded at the glasshouse of messrs     . hartley and grant, in dumbarton; but messrs. h. and g. 's establishment had ceased operations for many years previous to the publication of the hoax.
we were now thoroughly broken down; but the intense excitement of the time denied us repose .
i then thought, and i think so still, that i never heard a clearer nor a stronger voice, nor beheld a finer set of teeth: but i must say that i was sorry for the interruption just at that moment, as, owing to the whispers and insinuations aforesaid, my interest had been greatly excited in the hero of the bugaboo and kickapoo campaign .
 ''and now, dupin, what would you advise me to do? ''  ''to make a thorough re search of the premises . ''
legrand immediately took the scythe, and cleared with it a circular space, three or four yards in diameter, just beneath the insect, and, having accomplished this, ordered jupiter to let go the string and come down from the tree .
on monday, it was ascertained that the girl had not been to the rue des drômes; and when the day elapsed without tidings of her, a tardy search was instituted at several points in the city, and its environs .
about eight inches immediately below these ropes, and four feet from the bottom of the car i fastened another shelf but made of thin plank, being the only similar piece of wood i had .
as i was coming home i met lieutenant g , from the fort, and, very foolishly, i lent him the bug; so it will be impossible for you to see it until the morning .
it is a plain, straightforward business, and requires no particular abilities .
by this time the cries had ceased; but, as the party rushed up the first flight of stairs, two or more rough voices in angry contention were distinguished and seemed to proceed from the upper part of the house .
upon this topic the topic of smith 's personal appearance i have a kind of melancholy satisfaction in being minute .
the right arm of the chess player is extended at full length before him, at right angles with his body, and lying, in an apparently careless position, by the side of the board .
 ''having attained the altitude before mentioned, that is to say three miles and three quarters, i threw out from the car a quantity of feathers, and found that i still ascended with sufficient rapidity; there was, therefore, no necessity for discharging any ballast .
it is very probable that he seats himself upon the little square block or protuberance which is seen in a corner of the main compartment when the doors are open .
the undue, earnest, and morbid attention thus excited by objects in their own nature frivolous, must not be confounded in character with that ruminating propensity common to all mankind, and more especially indulged in by persons of ardent imagination .
my manner had convinced them .
on the fourth her corpse was found floating in the seine, near the shore which is opposite the quartier of the rue saint andree, and at a point not very far distant from the secluded neighborhood of the barrière du roule .
i did not at least during the long period in which the inventor of lombardy poplars continued to favor me with his explanations .
his manner was a wild mixture of the peevishness of second childhood, and the solemn dignity of a god .
he was too much astounded to resist .
the chiselled stone has the hue of ages, and is profusely overhung and overspread with the ivy, the coral honeysuckle, the eglantine, and the clematis .
now, it cannot be maintained, even, that by the crawling system the greatest amount of truth would be attained in any long series of ages, for the repression of imagination was an evil not to be compensated for by any superior certainty in the ancient modes of investigation .
i smiled, for what had i to fear?
i say the mean or average interval .
the entire reward thus stood at no less than thirty thousand francs, which will be regarded as an extraordinary sum when we consider the humble condition of the girl, and the great frequency, in large cities, of such atrocities as the one described .
thus there is such a thing as being too profound .
nothing can surpass in beauty the form, or the glossy, vivid green of the leaves of the tulip tree .
 ''a skull, you say very well how is it fastened to the limb?
 ''i will explain, '' he said,  ''and that you may comprehend all clearly, we will first retrace the course of your meditations, from the moment in which i spoke to you until that of the rencontre with the fruiterer in question .
the mesmeric condition is so near death as to content me .
the retardation actually experienced is, on the other hand, about that which might be expected from the friction of the ether in the instantaneous passage through the orb .
i will not say, then, commence with the moment of life 's cessation but commence with that sad, sad instant when, the fever having abandoned you, you sank into a breathless and motionless torpor, and i pressed down your pallid eyelids with the passionate fingers of love .
it was by one of the terrific barriers already mentioned, and which indicated the region beyond to be under the pest ban, that, in scrambling down an alley, legs and the worthy hugh tarpaulin found their progress suddenly impeded .
and now, from the wreck and the chaos of the usual senses, there appeared to have arisen within me a sixth, all perfect .
but to the chamber which lies most westwardly of the seven, there are now none of the maskers who venture; for the night is waning away; and there flows a ruddier light through the blood colored panes; and the blackness of the sable drapery appals; and to him whose foot falls upon the sable carpet, there comes from the near clock of ebony a muffled peal more solemnly emphatic than any which reaches their ears who indulge in the more remote gaieties of the other apartments .
now you may think that i drew back but no .
then again sound, and motion, and touch a tingling sensation pervading my frame .
such estates were seldom held before by a nobleman of hungary .
our conversation now turned upon the details of our arrangements for the morrow .
there was not a particle of silver .
m  . beauvais, not being an idiot, could never have urged, in identification of the corpse, simply hair upon its arm.
         '''we will suppose,' said the miser, 'that his symptoms are such and such; now, doctor, what would you have directed him to take?'  '''take' said abernethy, 'why, take advice, to be sure .' ''
the key to the whole was found in leaving out every second and third word alternately, when there appeared a series of ludicrous quizzes upon a single combat as practised in modern times .
an icy chill ran through my frame; a sense of insufferable anxiety oppressed me; a consuming curiosity pervaded my soul; and sinking back upon the chair, i remained for some time breathless and motionless, with my eyes riveted upon her person .
the curtains of my bed were in flames .
and here let me call your attention to the fact, that the time elapsing between the first ascertained, and the second supposed elopement, is a few months more than the general period of the cruises of our men of war .
it is only within the last century, pundit tells me, that the binary relation existing between these two orbs began even to be suspected .
these the mere romanticist must eschew, if he do not wish to offend or to disgust .
my mind, however, was too much occupied to sleep, and i lay the whole night buried in meditation .
here pompey screwed on an arm .
each moment added to its speed to its headlong impetuosity .
the drawer is now opened, and the legs of the person within drop down behind it in the space it formerly occupied .
i can call to mind no similar occurrence producing so general and so intense an effect .
just as the day dawns to the friendless and houseless beggar who roams the streets throughout the long desolate winter night just so tardily just so wearily just so cheerily came back the light of the soul to me .
and all with pearl and ruby glowing was the fair palace door, through which came flowing, flowing, flowing, and sparkling evermore, a troop of echoes whose sweet duty was but to sing, in voices of surpassing beauty, the wit and wisdom of their king .
 ''it is nothing, '' he said, at last .
that no human being can be accommodated within the box  . .
for the first three or four days we had fine weather, although the wind was dead ahead; having chopped round to the northward, immediately upon our losing sight of the coast .
quitting talbot abruptly, i made every effort to force my way into closer proximity with madame lalande .
each one of a gang so placed, is not so much greedy of reward, or anxious for escape, as fearful of betrayal .
no sooner had these syllables passed my lips, than as if a shield of brass had indeed, at the moment, fallen heavily upon a floor of silver i became aware of a distinct, hollow, metallic, and clangorous, yet apparently muffled reverberation .
 ''the material world, '' continued dupin,  ''abounds with very strict analogies to the immaterial; and thus some color of truth has been given to the rhetorical dogma, that metaphor, or simile, may be made to strengthen an argument, as well as to embellish a description .
it was deposited in wyatt 's own; and there, too, it remained, occupying very nearly the whole of the floor no doubt to the exceeding discomfort of the artist and his wife; this the more especially as the tar or paint with which it was lettered in sprawling capitals, emitted a strong, disagreeable, and, to my fancy, a peculiarly disgusting odor .
yet his countenance was, nevertheless, one of those which all men have seen at some period of their lives, and have never afterwards seen again .
one thing upon which m  . beauvais strongly insists is, that the clasp on the garter found, had been set back to take it in.
it seemed to be his design rather to insinuate than directly to assert that, physically, he had not always been what he was that a long series of neuralgic attacks had reduced him from a condition of more than usual personal beauty, to that which i saw .
as i ran at full speed, with my nose up in the atmosphere, and intent only upon the purloiner of my property, i suddenly perceived that my feet rested no longer upon terra firma; the fact is, i had thrown myself over a precipice, and should inevitably have been dashed to pieces but for my good fortune in grasping the end of a long guide rope, which depended from a passing balloon .
my hair which had been raven black the day before, was as white as you see it now .
at the most remote end of the crypt there appeared another less spacious .
the long imprisoned secret burst forth from my soul .
 ''out '' i replied, staggering back half a dozen paces  ''let me tell you, my fine fellow, that this thing is thoroughly impossible and impracticable; mr  . talbot is not out.
we contradicted no fancies which entered the brains of the mad .
and when my spirit departs shall the child live thy child and mine, morella 's .
it was at venice, beneath the covered archway there called the ponte di sospiri, that i met for the third or fourth time the person of whom i speak .
in viewing this question in its full and proper light, we must hold steadily in mind the great disproportion between the personal acquaintances of even the most noted individual in paris, and the entire population of paris itself .
and then did we, the seven, start from our seats in horror, and stand trembling, and shuddering, and aghast, for the tones in the voice of the shadow were not the tones of any one being, but of a multitude of beings, and, varying in their cadences from syllable to syllable fell duskly upon our ears in the well remembered and familiar accents of many thousand departed friends .
dog street '' by the thirty first day of the month, this advertisement has brought to the office of messrs  . bogs, hogs, logs, frogs, and company, some fifteen or twenty young gentlemen piously inclined.
in pursuance of dupin 's suggestion, i made scrupulous examination of the affair of the affidavits .
these, having their backs on the hills, must look, of course, to the centre of the plain, which is just sixty yards from the front door of each dwelling .
we had protracted our sitting far into the night, and i had at length effected the manoeuvre of getting glendinning as my sole antagonist .
acting upon this hint, i made the division thus:      'a good glass in the bishop's hostel in the devil's seat forty one degrees and thirteen minutes northeast and by north main branch seventh limb east side shoot from the left eye of the death's head a bee line from the tree through the shot fifty feet out .' ''
 ''to what food, '' i thought,  ''have they been accustomed in the well? ''
i made effort to arouse myself by aid of frequent lafitte, and, all failing, i betook myself to a stray newspaper in despair .
the latter was indeed over my head, and completely hidden by the balloon, while the moon the moon itself in all its glory lay beneath me, and at my feet .
alas nothing i have done .
talking of drag ropes our own, it seems, has this moment knocked a man overboard from one of the small magnetic propellers that swarm in ocean below us a boat of about six thousand tons, and, from all accounts, shamefully crowded .
his stable, too, was appointed at a distance from the rest; and with regard to grooming and other necessary offices, none but the owner in person had ventured to officiate, or even to enter the enclosure of that particular stall .
i have, indeed, no abhorrence of danger, except in its absolute effect in terror .
evening paper monday june  .
you will, of course, ask   'where is the connexion?'
i have just spoken of that morbid condition of the auditory nerve which rendered all music intolerable to the sufferer, with the exception of certain effects of stringed instruments .
that night the duc was to sup alone .
 ''listen to me, '' said the demon as he placed his hand upon my head .
the papers thrown on board our balloon are filled with fac similes of the coins, mss   ., typography, c., c.
i did not at first know what to make of this extraordinary phenomenon; not being able to believe that my rate of ascent had, of a sudden, met with so prodigious an acceleration .
why cause he talk about it in he sleep dat 's how i nose . ''
those found were at least of as good quality as any likely to be possessed by these ladies .
 ''on the other hand, i was aware that arguments have not been wanting to prove the existence of a real and definite limit to the atmosphere, beyond which there is absolutely no air whatsoever .
when one has nothing to do, then is the time to correspond with ones friends .
in a balloon sufficiently perfect to retain its contents of coal gas unaltered, in quantity or amount, for six months, an equal quantity of hydrogen could not be maintained in equal purity for six weeks .
it was a fantastic chateau, much dilapidated, and indeed scarcely tenantable through age and neglect .
his forehead was broad and low .
 ''why taint noffin but a skull somebody bin lef him head up de tree, and de crows done gobble ebery bit ob de meat off . ''
the proximate cause was one of especial singularity .
when decomposition had proceeded to a very great extent when the flesh had in a great measure left the bones then, indeed, but not till then, should we lose sight of the corpse .
even as it was, my hair stood on end, while i gazed afar down within the yawning abysses, letting imagination descend, as it were, and stalk about in the strange vaulted halls, and ruddy gulfs, and red ghastly chasms of the hideous and unfathomable fire .
you have nothing to conceal .
by no means it is altogether beneath it that is to say provided we assume what should never for a moment be assumed that the chess player is a pure machine, and performs its operations without any immediate human agency .
your cough  ''  ''it is nothing, '' he said;  ''let us go on .
with the employment the power departs . ''
from me, in an instant, all virtue dropped bodily as a mantle .
that sad little rake, the prince of wales, invited me to dinner .
 ''ah '' he replied,  ''very good i see how it is say no more touching this matter of compensation, what you observe is very just: in fact it is excessively so .
it is obvious that here the victory can be decided the players being at all equal only by some recherché movement, the result of some strong exertion of the intellect .
as i entered his room he greeted me with a cheerful smile, and although evidently in much bodily pain, appeared to be, mentally, quite at ease .
and this is a reflection which appears so exceedingly obvious that attempts to controvert it are received more frequently with a derisive smile than with anything like respectful attention .
the sable divinity would not herself dwell with us always; but we could counterfeit her presence .
when the ideas to which i have alluded first occurred to me, it was of course very natural that i should think of m  . valdemar.
he had directed, in great part, the moveable embellishments of the seven chambers, upon occasion of this great fete; and it was his own guiding taste which had given character to the masqueraders .
at first, i made an effort to shake off this nightmare of the soul .
she is a little fat old lady, with blue eyes and a red face, and wears a huge cap like a sugar loaf, ornamented with purple and yellow ribbons .
a diddler stations himself upon this bridge, respectfully informs all passers by of the new county law, which establishes a toll of one cent for foot passengers, two for horses and donkeys, and so forth, and so forth .
our first impulse is to shrink from the danger .
man is an animal that diddles, and there is no animal that diddles but man .
 ''i protracted my visit as long as possible, and, while i maintained a most animated discussion with the minister upon a topic which i knew well had never failed to interest and excite him, i kept my attention really riveted upon the letter .
the songs which i so much admired, and which so confirmed my impression of the youth of my mistress, were executed by madame stephanie lalande .
i can give you some veal a la menehoult, with cauliflowers in veloute sauce after that a glass of clos de vougeot then your nerves will be sufficiently steadied . ''
burning with the chivalry of this determination, the great touch and go, in the next                'tea pot,' came out merely with this simple but resolute paragraph, in reference to this unhappy affair: 'the editor of the  ''tea pot '' has the honor of advising the editor of the  ''gazette '' that he the  ''tea pot '' will take an opportunity in tomorrow morning's paper, of convincing him the  ''gazette '' that he the  ''tea pot '' both can and will be his own master, as regards style; he the  ''tea pot '' intending to show him the  ''gazette '' the supreme, and indeed the withering contempt with which the criticism of him the  ''gazette '' inspires the independent bosom of him the  ''teapot '' by composing for the especial gratification ? of him the  ''gazette '' a leading article, of some extent, in which the beautiful vowel the emblem of eternity yet so offensive to the hyper exquisite delicacy of him the  ''gazette '' shall most certainly not be avoided by his the  ''gazette's '' most obedient, humble servant, the  ''tea pot . ''  ''so much for buckingham ''' in fulfilment of the awful threat thus darkly intimated rather than decidedly enunciated, the great bullet head, turning a deaf ear to all entreaties for 'copy,' and simply requesting his foreman to 'go to the d l,' when he the foreman assured him the 'tea pot' that it was high time to 'go to press': turning a deaf ear to everything, i say, the great bullet head sat up until day break, consuming the midnight oil, and absorbed in the composition of the really unparalleled paragraph, which follows: 'so ho, john how now?
he returns not, let the consequences be what they may .
and yet how unintelligible is this in all other matters we are justly instructed to regard nature as supreme .
the mathematical circle is a curve composed of an infinity of straight lines; but this idea of the circle this idea of it which, in regard to all earthly geometry, we consider as merely the mathematical, in contradistinction from the practical, idea is, in sober fact, the practical conception which alone we have any right to entertain in respect to those titanic circles with which we have to deal, at least in fancy, when we suppose our system, with its fellows, revolving about a point in the centre of the galaxy .
his hotel, too, is not without attendants devoted to his interests .
my mother saw this and called me a genius: my father wept for joy and presented me with a treatise on nosology .
 ''smith '' said she, in reply to my very earnest inquiry;  ''smith why, not general john a    . b. c.? bless me, i thought you knew all about him this is a wonderfully inventive age horrid affair that a bloody set of wretches, those kickapoos fought like a hero prodigies of valor immortal renown.
i pressed it, and, satisfied with the discovery, forbore to upraise the sash .
i now lamented that my great elevation would, in this case, prevent my taking as accurate a survey as i could wish .
drawing now my body upwards, with a prodigious exertion of muscular force, i succeeded, at the very first trial, in throwing the buckle over the car, and entangling it, as i had anticipated, in the circular rim of the wicker work .
its upper portion was draperied by one of the loose open sleeves now in fashion .
this seemed to dissipate the equivocal sensations which had hitherto annoyed me .
now at nine o 'clock of every morning in the week, with the exception of sunday, the streets of the city are, it is true, thronged with people .
it advances with a gentle but gradually accelerated velocity, while the slight ripples it creates seem to break about the ivory side in divinest melody seem to offer the only possible explanation of the soothing yet melancholy music for whose unseen origin the bewildered voyager looks around him in vain .
it was a voluptuous scene, that masquerade .
 ''well, '' replied my friend,  ''that is all very fair, to be sure .
my earliest recollections of a school life, are connected with a large, rambling, elizabethan house, in a misty looking village of england, where were a vast number of gigantic and gnarled trees, and where all the houses were excessively ancient .
in the present instance i have no sympathy at least no pity for him who descends .
and was he not consequently damned?
seizing him furiously by the wool with both hands, i tore out a vast quantity of black, and crisp, and curling material, and tossed it from me with every manifestation of disdain .
among other odd ideas, that of universal equality gained ground; and in the face of analogy and of god in despite of the loud warning voice of the laws of gradation so visibly pervading all things in earth an heaven wild attempts at an omni prevalent democracy were made .
when i joined the society it was my endeavor to introduce a better style of thinking and writing, and all the world knows how well i have succeeded .
i looked, therefore, for the extra baggage .
there was not a particle of charlatanerie about dupin .
captain mann? '' here screamed some little feminine interloper from the farthest corner of the room .
 'tiz de troof dat it iz eberry vord ob it . ''
an innocent man is now imprisoned, charged with that crime of which you can point out the perpetrator . ''
but does not the appearance of epidaphne justify me in calling it grotesque?
i might as well have tried to lift the cathedral itself .
the ultimate body thus escapes our rudimental senses, and we perceive only the shell which falls, in decaying, from the inner form; not that inner form itself; but this inner form, as well as the shell, is appreciable by those who have already acquired the ultimate life .
a fine fire was blazing upon the hearth .
the medical testimony spoke confidently of the virtuous character of the deceased .
the bequest was conditioned upon my taking the name of the testator, the family, not the christian name; my christian name is napoleon bonaparte or, more properly, these are my first and middle appellations .
when, deceived by my weakness of vision, and the arts of the toilet, in respect to the age and charms of the strange lady, i demanded so enthusiastically of talbot who she was, he concluded that i meant the younger beauty, as a matter of course, and so informed me, with perfect truth, that she was  ''the celebrated widow, madame lalande . ''
was i left to perish of starvation in this subterranean world of darkness; or what fate, perhaps even more fearful, awaited me?
beyond these the critical art can but suggest .
your allotted days of stupor have expired and, to morrow, i will myself induct you into the full joys and wonders of your novel existence .
and the death just avoided, was of that very character which i had regarded as fabulous and frivolous in the tales respecting the inquisition .
i knew that sound well, too .
even with the utterly lost, to whom life and death are equally jests, there are matters of which no jest can be made .
even the corpse seemed a matter in which i had no concern .
footnotes four beasts flavius vospicus says, that the hymn here introduced was sung by the rabble upon the occasion of aurelian, in the sarmatic war, having slain, with his own hand, nine hundred and fifty of the enemy .
i fancy that i have investigated every nook and corner of the premises in which it is possible that the paper can be concealed . ''
at length the valley pained me through its memories of eleonora, and i left it for ever for the vanities and the turbulent triumphs of the world .
the ship was crowded with passengers, and every thing was in the bustle attendant upon making sail .
ill usage and length of years have driven me from the one, and estranged me from the other .
i advanced a step, and listened to the sound of his tranquil breathing .
should it be read by the loser of the purse, he would hardly suspect it to have any reference to his own misfortune .
ye who read are still among the living; but i who write shall have long since gone my way into the region of shadows .
i will not describe the city of edinburgh .
  ''come we must go back, '' said the latter,  ''the game's not up yet; '' and he again led the way to the tulip tree .
and at length i, oinos, speaking some low words, demanded of the shadow its dwelling and its appellation .
i confess that i entertained some feeble hope of his final deliverance, when i saw him lash himself to the box, and commit himself to the sea  . ''  ''they sank as a matter of course, '' replied the captain,  ''and that like a shot.
danced alas, thought i, my dancing days are over thus it is ever .
we get up as good papers now in the p                . r. e. t. t. y. b. l. u. e. b. a. t. c. h. as any to be found even in blackwood.
but my evil destiny attended me still .
it was as stout as the other, and apparently fitted in the same manner driven in nearly up to the head .
 ''never, madam, but do tell me ''  ''or so inimitable grace? ''  ''never, upon my word but pray inform me ''  ''or so just an appreciation of stage effect? ''
my immediate purpose is to place before the world, plainly, succinctly, and without comment, a series of mere household events .
my soul acquired tone acquired temper .
since the affair of the letter, i had been in the habit of watching her house, and thus discovered that, about twilight, it was her custom to promenade, attended only by a negro in livery, in a public square overlooked by her windows .
i shook from head to foot as if i had had the most violent fit of the ague .
he is senseless and externally motionless; but the pulsation of the heart is still faintly perceptible; some traces of warmth remain; a slight color lingers within the centre of the cheek; and, upon application of a mirror to the lips, we can detect a torpid, unequal, and vacillating action of the lungs .
 ''but you could not have removed you could not have taken to pieces all articles of furniture in which it would have been possible to make a deposit in the manner you mention .
it was some thirty or forty feet overhead, and constructed much as the side walls .
a greater number of rays actually fall upon the eye in the latter case, but, in the former, there is the more refined capacity for comprehension .
an arm, for instance, uplifted from the water, and thus deprived of its support, is an additional weight sufficient to immerse the whole head, while the accidental aid of the smallest piece of timber will enable us to elevate the head so as to look about .
it has been easily calculated that, when the light proceeding from a star becomes so diffused as to be as weak as the natural light proceeding from the whole of the stars, in a clear and moonless night, then the star is no longer visible for any practical purpose .
he replied, but with an evident misunderstanding of my ideas upon the subject .
the articles taken out were deposited among the brambles, and the dog left to guard them, with strict orders from jupiter neither, upon any pretence, to stir from the spot, nor to open his mouth until our return .
she was evidently in the last stage of a dropsy; and her figure resembled nearly that of the huge puncheon of october beer which stood, with the head driven in, close by her side, in a corner of the chamber .
hab for to keep mighty tight eye pon him noovers .
and they became accursed, and were still .
i use this expression, because the suddenness of their departure put me in mind of nothing so much as the extinguishment of a candle by a puff of the breath .
i can conceive nothing more sublimating than the strange peril and novelty of an adventure such as this .
i dreaded lest the continued pressure of misfortune had, at length, fairly unsettled the reason of my friend .
this is one of those miserable thoroughfares which intervene between the rue richelieu and the rue st  . roch.
like some huge and sable feathered condor, we were slowly drifting down towards the bridge of sighs, when a thousand flambeaux flashing from the windows, and down the staircases of the ducal palace, turned all at once that deep gloom into a livid and preternatural day .
i had traced the secret to its ultimate result, and that result was the nail .
he recognises what is played through feint, by the air with which it is thrown upon the table .
it is a pocket book, and  ''has any gentleman lost a pocketbook? '' he cries .
i will therefore describe it as i afterwards saw it from a position on the stone wall at the southern extreme of the amphitheatre .
he derives pleasure from even the most trivial occupations bringing his talent into play .
 ''which way mus go now, massa will? '' he asked .
this always happens when it is above their own, and very usually when it is below .
what i have described in the frenchman, was merely the result of an excited, or perhaps of a diseased intelligence .
i made the attempt and failed .
 ''the measures, then, '' he continued,  ''were good in their kind, and well executed; their defect lay in their being inapplicable to the case, and to the man .
although there is a terrible ambiguity in the statement .
he sets his arms a kimbo .
yet, at this distant day, let me do him the simple justice to acknowledge that i can recall no occasion when the suggestions of my rival were on the side of those errors or follies so usual to his immature age and seeming inexperience; that his moral sense, at least, if not his general talents and worldly wisdom, was far keener than my own; and that i might, to day, have been a better, and thus a happier man, had i less frequently rejected the counsels embodied in those meaning whispers which i then but too cordially hated and too bitterly despised .
the lady lived; and with redoubled ardor i betook myself to the task of restoration .
the socket of the lost eye presented, it is true, a frightful appearance, but he no longer appeared to suffer any pain .
goaded, by the interference, into a rage more than demoniacal, i withdrew my arm from her grasp and buried the axe in her brain .
the barrel to which i was attached sunk very little farther than half the distance between the bottom of the gulf and the spot at which i leaped overboard, before a great change took place in the character of the whirlpool .
i did so, as follows:  ''m .
the former pays the reward, pockets the treasure and decamps .
those of   'oppodeldoc' will not scan .
the grapnel caught at , p   .m., precisely; and thus the whole voyage was completed in seventy five hours; or rather less, counting from shore to shore.
i forbear to depict my sensations upon the gallows; although here, undoubtedly, i could speak to the point, and it is a topic upon which nothing has been well said .
i wish merely to caution you against the whole tone of l  'etoile's suggestion, by calling your attention to its ex parte character at the outset .
these were the exact words, my beloved husband, were they not? ''  ''they were, '' i said;  ''you have an excellent memory; and assuredly, my beautiful eugenie, there is no disposition on my part to evade the performance of the trivial promise they imply .
if not positively ugly, she was not, i think, very far from it .
 ''after a thorough investigation of every portion of the house, without farther discovery, the party made its way into a small paved yard in the rear of the building, where lay the corpse of the old lady, with her throat so entirely cut that, upon an attempt to raise her, the head fell off .
 ''nitre? '' he asked, at length .
it now only remains to give you the full translation of the characters upon the parchment, as unriddled .
 '' odenheimer, restaurateur .
in its original form, this law offered a premium for cat heads fourpence a piece, but the senate succeeded in amending the main clause, so as to substitute the word  ''tails '' for  ''heads . ''
the gold seeker, whom i sincerely pitied, at length clambered from the pit, with the bitterest disappointment imprinted upon every feature, and proceeded, slowly and reluctantly, to put on his coat, which he had thrown off at the beginning of his labor .
i felt then the consummation of my fate .
it is of a brilliant gold color about the size of a large hickory nut with two jet black spots near one extremity of the back, and another, somewhat longer, at the other .
he was clad with a striking simplicity .
i took heart, therefore, and determined to prosecute the  ''entirely original, '' as they say on the covers of the magazines, at whatever cost of study and pains .
 ''for its introduction into common use for purposes of aerostation, we are indebted to mr  . charles green.
here i paused, to ascertain beyond a doubt whether he really knew of whom i thought .
but i am a man of my word mark that you shall have her, boy, plum and all, when you please .
 ''what can he be? '' said big miss bas bleu .
i have said that, in the first years of our connexion as schoolmates, my feelings in regard to him might have been easily ripened into friendship: but, in the latter months of my residence at the academy, although the intrusion of his ordinary manner had, beyond doubt, in some measure, abated, my sentiments, in nearly similar proportion, partook very much of positive hatred .
but i was not prepared to find them, upon close examination, evidently enjoying a high degree of health, breathing with the greatest ease and perfect regularity, and evincing not the slightest sign of any uneasiness whatever .
at a terrific height directly above us, and upon the very verge of the precipitous descent, hovered a gigantic ship of, perhaps, four thousand tons .
yet it was only at intervals in moments of intense excitement that this peculiarity became more than slightly noticeable in ligeia .
the greatest portion, however those especially who belabor the populace with clubs are the principal courtiers of the palace, executing as in duty bound, some laudable comicality of the king 's .
in charity no one gave more liberally or with a worse grace .
des idees ah here was the idiotic thought that destroyed me des idees ah therefore it was that i coveted them so madly i felt that their possession could alone ever restore me to peace, in giving me back to reason .
this continued for perhaps a minute .
he begged me, however, not to let any mere courtesy towards himself interfere with the gratification of my curiosity, and said that he would ride on leisurely, so that i might overtake him during the day, or, at all events, during the next .
and by the way, it does seem something like a coincidence, does it not that our friend, captain smitherton, here, has been absent exactly a year also a year to day '' smitherton .
  ''pierre, '' cried the host,  ''change this gentleman's plate, and give him a side piece of this rabbit au chat . ''
and, therefore, it was thought a matter of supererogation to withdraw the nails and open the windows .
he now said:  ''yes; no; i have been sleeping and now now i am dead . ''
to a sensitive mind there is always more or less of the shocking in such exhibitions; and i do not wish to spoil your appetite for dinner .
meantime the ponderous and terrific scythe of time for i now discovered the literal import of that classical phrase had not stopped, nor was it likely to stop, in its career .
there are few persons, even among the calmest thinkers, who have not occasionally been startled into a vague yet thrilling half credence in the supernatural, by coincidences of so seemingly marvellous a character that, as mere coincidences, the intellect has been unable to receive them .
have you got him here? ''
hermann would have died a thousand deaths rather than acknowledge his inability to understand anything and everything in the universe that had ever been written about the duello .
and thus, the thicket of the barrière du roule having been already suspected, the idea of placing the articles where they were found, might have been naturally entertained .
now i have already said that madame eugenie lalande that is to say, simpson spoke the english language but very little better than she wrote it, and for this reason she very properly never attempted to speak it upon ordinary occasions .
and indeed your excellencies may well imagine that, after a residence of five years upon a planet not only deeply interesting in its own peculiar character, but rendered doubly so by its intimate connection, in capacity of satellite, with the world inhabited by man, i may have intelligence for the private ear of the states ' college of astronomers of far more importance than the details, however wonderful, of the mere voyage which so happily concluded .
it was clear to me, however, that the shutter belonging to the window at the head of the bed, would, if swung fully back to the wall, reach to within two feet of the lightning rod .
this occurred in , and created, at the time, a very profound sensation wherever it was made the subject of converse .
it had taken, with inconceivable rapidity, the character of a gigantic mantle of rare flame, extending from horizon to horizon .
we may, however, presume he would not have adopted it but for some occasion of especial state .
the two lived an exceedingly retired life were reputed to have money .
but, as it is my design never to return or not for some weeks or not until certain concealments are effected the gaining of time is the only point about which i need give myself any concern . '
having cut off my ears, however, he discovered signs of animation .
and then came, as if to my final and irrevocable overthrow, the spirit of perverseness .
and one by one dropped the revellers in the blood bedewed halls of their revel, and died each in the despairing posture of his fall .
 ''but let us proceed to the amontillado . ''
the guest is bidden to be of good cheer that the fates will take care of him .
from my infancy i was noted for the docility and humanity of my disposition .
      ''upon this discovery i was so sanguine as to consider the enigma solved; for the phrase 'main branch, seventh limb, east side,' could refer only to the position of the skull upon the tree, while 'shoot from the left eye of the death's head' admitted, also, of but one interpretation, in regard to a search for buried treasure .
he was led, we must presume, to this wild hypothesis by mere analogy in the first instance; but, this being the case, he should have at least adhered to analogy in its development .
    'it is impossible,' it urges, 'that a person so well known to thousands as this young woman was, should have passed three blocks without some one having seen her .'
thrown by accident into her society many years ago, my soul from our first meeting, burned with fires it had never before known; but the fires were not of eros, and bitter and tormenting to my spirit was the gradual conviction that i could in no manner define their unusual meaning or regulate their vague intensity .
in the afternoon, however, it came on to rain heavily; and, supposing that she would remain all night at her aunt 's, as she had done under similar circumstances before, he did not think it necessary to keep his promise .
with high cheek bones, a large hawk nose, retreating chin, fallen under jaw, and huge protruding white eyes, the expression of his countenance, although tinged with a species of dogged indifference to matters and things in general, was not the less utterly solemn and serious beyond all attempts at imitation or description .
here monsieur de kock bowed low, kissed his hand with much ceremony, and took wine with ma  'm'selle laplace .
the wife of one of the most respectable citizens a lawyer of eminence and a member of congress was seized with a sudden and unaccountable illness, which completely baffled the skill of her physicians .
the gruff voice said repeatedly       'sacré,' 'diable,' and once 'mon dieu  .'  ''jules mignaud, banker, of the firm of mignaud et fils, rue deloraine.
 ''he is, as you say, a remarkable horse a prodigious horse although, as you very justly observe, of a suspicious and untractable character, let him be mine, however, '' he added, after a pause,  ''perhaps a rider like frederick of metzengerstein, may tame even the devil from the stables of berlifitzing . ''
but no answer was there found .
now if it were observed that never, in any single instance, did m   . maelzel differ from the routine we have pointed out as necessary to our solution, it would be one of the strongest possible arguments in corroboration of it but the argument becomes infinitely strengthened if we duly consider the circumstance that he does occasionally deviate from the routine but never does so deviate as to falsify the solution. .
the golden and silver fish haunted the river, out of the bosom of which issued, little by little, a murmur that swelled, at length, into a lulling melody more divine than that of the harp of aeolus sweeter than all save the voice of eleonora .
there is an hysterical laugh which will forever ring within my ears .
and the power of self movement equivalent in effect to human volition is, in the unparticled matter, the result of its unity and omniprevalence; how i know not, and now clearly see that i shall never know .
 ''oh, madame joyeuse was a fool '' she exclaimed,  ''but there was really much sound sense, after all, in the opinion of eugenie salsafette .
on the contrary, he could by no means account for the overwhelming anxiety which appeared falling like a pall upon his senses .
he must have spoken of some peculiarity in this hair .
i had fallen into a trance while absent from home while among strangers when, or how, i could not remember and it was they who had buried me as a dog nailed up in some common coffin and thrust deep, deep, and for ever, into some ordinary and nameless grave .
holding the instrument thus obtained within my teeth, i now proceeded to untie the knot of my cravat .
alas what is the boasted intellect of man?
it was my antagonist it was wilson, who then stood before me in the agonies of his dissolution .
 ''father, '' i said,  ''pardon me but i have a soul above lather .
  ''we kept the smack in a cove about five miles higher up the coast than this; and it was our practice, in fine weather, to take advantage of the fifteen minutes' slack to push across the main channel of the moskoe ström, far above the pool, and then drop down upon anchorage somewhere near otterholm, or sandflesen, where the eddies are not so violent as elsewhere .
who who knoweth the mysteries of the will with its vigor?
my friend leaving us immediately, we had quite a long tête à tête, and i was not only pleased but really instructed .
he here confounds the pleasure derivable from sweet sounds with the capacity for creating them .
but she was humble and obedient, and sat meekly for many weeks in the dark, high turret chamber where the light dripped upon the pale canvas only from overhead .
it was open, and its contents lay beside it on the floor .
this generous approbation touched me to the heart the more especially as it emanated from a source so avowedly so proverbially pure as the  ''toad . ''
the secret i would make no difficulty in disclosing, but that it of right belongs to a citizen of nantz, in france, by whom it was conditionally communicated to myself .
but i did not fail to perceive that these latter calculations are founded altogether on our experimental knowledge of the properties of air, and the mechanical laws regulating its dilation and compression, in what may be called, comparatively speaking, the immediate vicinity of the earth itself; and, at the same time, it is taken for granted that animal life is and must be essentially incapable of modification at any given unattainable distance from the surface .
now it was this latter peculiarity in his disposition, of which kate 's ingenuity enabled us one fine day, not long after our interview in the dining room, to take a very unexpected advantage, and, having thus, in the fashion of all modern bards and orators, exhausted in prolegomena, all the time at my command, and nearly all the room at my disposal, i will sum up in a few words what constitutes the whole pith of the story .
his second principle was the love of woman .
i threw my straining vision below .
i need not go into details .
i even went so far as to fear that, as i occasioned much trouble, they might be glad to consider any very protracted attack as sufficient excuse for getting rid of me altogether .
it is evident that the hoop would now drop down within the car, while the whole weight of the car itself, with all its contents, would be held up merely by the strength of the buttons .
the purchaser took me to his apartments and commenced operations immediately .
i say to my horror; for i was consumed with intolerable thirst .
in the lining of my sleeve were found all the court cards essential in ecarte, and, in the pockets of my wrapper, a number of packs, facsimiles of those used at our sittings, with the single exception that mine were of the species called, technically, arrondees; the honours being slightly convex at the ends, the lower cards slightly convex at the sides .
in the compendium of the essay, made use of in the letters on natural magic, it is quite impossible to arrive at any distinct conclusion in regard to the adequacy or inadequacy of the analysis, on account of the gross misarrangement and deficiency of the letters of reference employed .
from behind the huge bulk of one of those sharply defined masses of cloud already mentioned, was seen slowly to emerge into an open area of blue space, a queer, heterogeneous, but apparently solid substance, so oddly shaped, so whimsically put together, as not to be in any manner comprehended, and never to be sufficiently admired, by the host of sturdy burghers who stood open mouthed below .
and the evening closed in upon me thus and then the darkness came, and tarried, and went and the day again dawned and the mists of a second night were now gathering around and still i sat motionless in that solitary room and still i sat buried in meditation and still the phantasma of the teeth maintained its terrible ascendancy, as, with the most vivid hideous distinctness, it floated about amid the changing lights and shadows of the chamber .
that he observed it in all its bearings, and as fixedly as i, was apparent; but that he could discover in such circumstances so fruitful a field of annoyance, can only be attributed, as i said before, to his more than ordinary penetration .
he told of a wild cry disturbing the silence of the night of the gathering together of the household of a search in the direction of the sound; and then his tones grew thrillingly distinct as he whispered me of a violated grave of a disfigured body enshrouded, yet still breathing still palpitating still alive he pointed to garments; they were muddy and clotted with gore .
be sure they were grotesque .
i rather think it was a ringing in my own ears .
my eyes are large and gray; and although, in fact they are weak a very inconvenient degree, still no defect in this regard would be suspected from their appearance .
we then went into the other rooms, and into the yard; a gendarme accompanying us throughout .
i bounded like a madman through the crowded thoroughfares .
it is quite certain that the operations of the automaton are regulated by mind, and by nothing else .
monsieur voissart, very singularly, had married a lady of similar name a mademoiselle moissart .
it was difficult, at any given time, to say with certainty upon which of its two stories one happened to be .
 ''a thousand pounds, '' said i, sitting down .
the room had been square .
marie, with madame, replied to all questions, that the last week had been spent at the house of a relation in the country .
we moved our hands, for example, when we were dwellers on the earth, and, in so doing, gave vibration to the atmosphere which engirdled it .
we seldom find so much of forethought in young men; and, more than once, some unhappy contre temps has occurred in consequence of thoughtlessness on the part of our visitors .
   'as five miles, then, to eight thousand,' would express the proportion of the earth's area seen by me .
for the court, guiding itself by the general principles of evidence the recognized and booked principles is averse from swerving at particular instances .
i say signature; because its position upon the vellum suggested this idea .
an anxious examination of his career has given me to understand that in general, from the violation of a few simple laws of humanity arises the wretchedness of mankind that as a species we have in our possession the as yet unwrought elements of content and that, even now, in the present darkness and madness of all thought on the great question of the social condition, it is not impossible that man, the individual, under certain unusual and highly fortuitous conditions, may be happy .
the wild eyes blazed with a too too glorious effulgence; the pale fingers became of the transparent waxen hue of the grave, and the blue veins upon the lofty forehead swelled and sank impetuously with the tides of the gentle emotion .
the baron, besides, had no particular name for the animal, although all the rest in his collection were distinguished by characteristic appellations .
the usual grounds are a great way lower down to the southward .
were they so blind as not to perceive that the destruction of a myriad of individuals is only so much positive advantage to the mass april  .
as the flames, when first seen, had already made so terrible a progress that all efforts to save any portion of the building were evidently futile, the astonished neighborhood stood idly around in silent and pathetic wonder .
but this hideousness is insufferable .
my father was a monsieur froissart, of paris .
the victims must have been sitting with their backs toward the window; and, from the time elapsing between the ingress of the beast and the screams, it seems probable that it was not immediately perceived .
now, you dog, slip on my shoulders and bosom pettitt makes the best shoulders, but for a bosom you will have to go to ducrow . ''
he seems to have been very much averse to permitting the relatives to see the body . ''
but where are the antennæ you spoke of? ''  ''the antennæ '' said legrand, who seemed to be getting unaccountably warm upon the subject;  ''i am sure you must see the antennæ .
this latter direction i at once established by means of a pocket compass; then, pointing the glass as nearly at an angle of forty one degrees of elevation as i could do it by guess, i moved it cautiously up or down, until my attention was arrested by a circular rift or opening in the foliage of a large tree that overtopped its fellows in the distance .
in scrutinizing this machinery while the automaton was in motion, that is to say while the whole machine was moving on the castors, it appeared to us that certain portions of the mechanism changed their shape and position in a degree too great to be accounted for by the simple laws of perspective; and subsequent examinations convinced us that these undue alterations were attributable to mirrors in the interior of the trunk .
this indescribable something which men will persist in terming  ''genius? ''
then, in a knowing manner, i felt in both my breeches pockets, and, missing therefrom a set of tablets and a toothpick case, endeavored to account for their disappearance, and not being able to do so, felt inexpressibly chagrined .
the first thing to do is to get rid of the old bore . ''
after slight reflection i gave a willing assent to this bold proposition, which strange to say met with objection from the two seamen only .
to prevent his following the example of his companion, and accomplishing a return, i threw him downward with all my force, and was pleased to find him continue his descent, with great velocity, making use of his wings with ease, and in a perfectly natural manner .
in this examination, i committed to memory its external appearance and arrangement in the rack; and also fell, at length, upon a discovery which set at rest whatever trivial doubt i might have entertained .
his vest was of some bright yellow material; a white taffety cap was set jauntily on one side of his head; and, to complete his equipment, a blood red silk handkerchief enveloped his throat, and fell down, in a dainty manner, upon his bosom, in a fantastic bow knot of super eminent dimensions .
i was singularly at ease .
that is the new temple of the sun, who is adored in syria under the title of elah gabalah .
from the dim regions beyond the mountains at the upper end of our encircled domain, there crept out a narrow and deep river, brighter than all save the eyes of eleonora; and, winding stealthily about in mazy courses, it passed away, at length, through a shadowy gorge, among hills still dimmer than those whence it had issued .
we had no room, of course, for any thing except a few positively necessary instruments, some provisions, and the clothes upon our backs .
a line dropped from an elevation of , feet, perpendicularly to the surface of the earth or sea, would form the perpendicular of a right angled triangle, of which the base would extend from the right angle to the horizon, and the hypothenuse from the horizon to the balloon .
but the principium indivduationis, the notion of that identity which at death is or is not lost for ever, was to me, at all times, a consideration of intense interest; not more from the perplexing and exciting nature of its consequences, than from the marked and agitated manner in which morella mentioned them .
i said  ''disappointed, '' but this is not altogether the word .
and, anon, there strikes the ebony clock which stands in the hall of the velvet .
and, indeed, the character of the syrian monarch does by no means stand in need of any adventitious embellishment .
this is just; as also is the reference to the sense of human interest .
my attention was next arrested by these paragraphs in the    ''toad '' a print highly distinguished for its uprightness, and independence for its entire freedom from sycophancy and subservience to the givers of dinners:  ''the 'lollipop' for october is out in advance of all its contemporaries, and infinitely surpasses them, of course, in the splendor of its embellishments, as well as in the richness of its literary contents .
i could not help believing that the green sods and the gray rocks upon which i trod had been trodden never before by the foot of a human being .
but assuredly if we had been brothers we must have been twins; for, after leaving dr  . bransby 's, i casually learned that my namesake was born on the nineteenth of january, and this is a somewhat remarkable coincidence; for the day is precisely that of my own nativity.
as the former proceeded in his discourse, or rather monologue i perceived the excitement of the latter momently increasing .
with the best intentions in the world, i never knew any thing that made as many singular mistakes as the  ''goosetherumfoodle . ''
could it be proved that the editor of l 'etoile really entertained a doubt, under the circumstances, there would be no need, in his case, of a commission de lunatico inquirendo .
in an excursion to the ragged mountains, a few days since, a slight cold and fever were contracted, attended with great determination of blood to the head .
i endeavored to believe that much, if not all of what i felt, was due to the bewildering influence of the gloomy furniture of the room of the dark and tattered draperies, which, tortured into motion by the breath of a rising tempest, swayed fitfully to and fro upon the walls, and rustled uneasily about the decorations of the bed .
recourse was had to figures; and figures but sufficed to confound .
at length there seemed to pass a violent and sudden shock through my soul, as if of electricity .
against the crowd which environed me, however, i experienced a deep sentiment of animosity .
it seemed clear to us all that to awaken m  . valdemar would be merely to insure his instant, or at least his speedy dissolution.
for seven or eight days we saw no material increase in its apparent diameter, and but a partial alteration in its color .
the main event detailed in the signor 's narrative depends upon a very important fact, of which the reader is kept in ignorance until near the end of the book .
  ''tell me, for heaven's sake, '' i exclaimed,  ''the method if method there is by which you have been enabled to fathom my soul in this matter . ''
 ''out to the end '' here fairly screamed legrand,  ''do you say you are out to the end of that limb? ''  ''soon be to de eend, massa, o o o o oh lor gol a marcy what is dis here pon de tree? ''  ''well '' cried legrand, highly delighted,  ''what is it? ''
had the sleep waker, indeed, during the latter portion of his discourse, been addressing me from out the region of the shadows?
a terrace, with an old moss covered balustrade, calls up at once to the eye the fair forms that have passed there in other days .
 ''and, all at once, the moon arose through the thin ghastly mist, and was crimson in color .
therein, i say, are glorious histories of the heaven, and of the earth, and of the mighty sea and of the genii that over ruled the sea, and the earth, and the lofty heaven .
but even stamboul, it is said, shall have an end, and there came an end to this long delay .
if there is on earth a supreme and unqualified despotism, it is the despotism of a master mind in boyhood over the less energetic spirits of its companions .
one went over us this morning about sunrise, and so nearly overhead that its drag rope actually brushed the network suspending our car, and caused us very serious apprehension .
this latter point i determined to attend to at regular intervals of forty minutes, more on account of the preservation of my health, than from so frequent a renovation being absolutely necessary .
the families of berlifitzing and metzengerstein had been at variance for centuries .
the streets were profoundly quiet, as it was nearly three o 'clock in the morning .
the boat glides between them, and commences a rapid descent into a vast amphitheatre entirely begirt with purple mountains, whose bases are laved by a gleaming river throughout the full extent of their circuit .
the jog trot movement, to my thinking, is little less than positive torture .
you will have a distinct idea of the ultimate body by conceiving it to be entire brain .
what, therefore, must have been my amazement, on awakening from a brief and disturbed slumber, on the morning of this day, the seventeenth, at finding the surface beneath me so suddenly and wonderfully augmented in volume, as to subtend no less than thirty nine degrees in apparent angular diameter i was thunderstruck no words can give any adequate idea of the extreme, the absolute horror and astonishment, with which i was seized possessed, and altogether overwhelmed .
it was this my chin rested upon the floor of the prison, but my lips and the upper portion of my head, although seemingly at a less elevation than the chin, touched nothing .
in the investigations at the house of madame l 'espanaye, the agents of g were discouraged and confounded by that very unusualness which, to a properly regulated intellect, would have afforded the surest omen of success; while this same intellect might have been plunged in despair at the ordinary character of all that met the eye in the case of the perfumery girl, and yet told of nothing but easy triumph to the functionaries of the prefecture .
as might be supposed from the origin of his disorder, he grew infected with system, and with abstraction .
suspended by blue ribbons to the end of this fantastic machine, there hung, by way of car, an enormous drab beaver hat, with a brim superlatively broad, and a hemispherical crown with a black band and a silver buckle .
a small room in the front of the house, on the fourth story, at the head of the passage was open, the door being ajar .
 ''we are used to these things, and care really very little about them .
i have much to say of the climate of the planet; of its wonderful alternations of heat and cold, of unmitigated and burning sunshine for one fortnight, and more than polar frigidity for the next; of a constant transfer of moisture, by distillation like that in vacuo, from the point beneath the sun to the point the farthest from it; of a variable zone of running water, of the people themselves; of their manners, customs, and political institutions; of their peculiar physical construction; of their ugliness; of their want of ears, those useless appendages in an atmosphere so peculiarly modified; of their consequent ignorance of the use and properties of speech; of their substitute for speech in a singular method of inter communication; of the incomprehensible connection between each particular individual in the moon with some particular individual on the earth a connection analogous with, and depending upon, that of the orbs of the planet and the satellites, and by means of which the lives and destinies of the inhabitants of the one are interwoven with the lives and destinies of the inhabitants of the other; and above all, if it so please your excellencies above all, of those dark and hideous mysteries which lie in the outer regions of the moon regions which, owing to the almost miraculous accordance of the satellite  's rotation on its own axis with its sidereal revolution about the earth, have never yet been turned, and, by god's mercy, never shall be turned, to the scrutiny of the telescopes of man .
the mass of the people regard as profound only him who suggests pungent contradictions of the general idea .
the measured movement of the pendulum disturbed them not at all .
as i entered the chamber, i looked about, of course, for the occupant, but did not immediately perceive him .
this request must i confess it?
in this dilemma, captain hardy arranged that the corpse, being first partially embalmed, and packed, with a large quantity of salt, in a box of suitable dimensions, should be conveyed on board as merchandise .
mr  . henson 's scheme which at first was considered very feasible even by men of science, was founded upon the principle of an inclined plane, started from an eminence by an extrinsic force, applied and continued by the revolution of impinging vanes, in form and number resembling the vanes of a windmill.
i don  't believe it immortal renown and all that prodigies of valor never heard why, bless me, he's the man ''  ''mann?
from his cradle to his grave a gale of prosperity bore my friend ellison along .
when i observed this last, plain evidence of my friend 's aberration of mind, i could scarcely refrain from tears .
hence the impression of concavity; and this impression must remain, until the elevation shall bear so great a proportion to the extent of prospect, that the apparent parallelism of the base and hypothenuse disappears when the earth 's real convexity must become apparent .
here again is a very clever diddle, of which the simplicity is not its least recommendation .
the origin of this hubbub soon became sufficiently evident .
v  . yes no i would rather sleep more soundly.
pompey held it up out of the dirt with both hands .
for some moments all were paralyzed with awe but the urgency of the case soon restored them their presence of mind .
those who would hesitate at such a wager, have either never been boys themselves, or have forgotten the boyish nature .
both doors leading from the rooms into the passage were securely locked, with the keys inside .
the phrenological combativeness has for its essence, the necessity of self defence .
we were all lions and recherchés .
you must forget too, my earthly name, and speak to me as charmion .
the manner in which wyatt received this harmless pleasantry convinced me, at once, that he was mad .
besides, the monarch is of gigantic stature, and the dress is therefore neither unbecoming nor over large .
with my head i imagined, at one time, that i, the head, was the real signora psyche zenobia at another i felt convinced that myself, the body, was the proper identity .
was one of the party who entered the house .
there appeared to be no furniture in any part of the building except in the fourth story .
thus it happened that he became neither musician nor poet; if we use this latter term in its every day acceptation .
i am aware that some grinders have actually afforded to  ''go on '' for this sum; but for my part, i found the necessary outlay of capital too great to permit of my  ''going on '' under a shilling .
for many months he had been laboring under confirmed phthisis, the more distressing effects of which had been relieved by my manipulations; and on the night of wednesday, the fifteenth instant, i was summoned to his bedside .
he grins when his daily work is done when his allotted labors are accomplished at night in his own closet, and altogether for his own private entertainment .
leaving open the main compartment, the drawer, and the front door of cupboard no  . i, he now goes to the rear again, and throws open the back door of the main compartment.
there seems to me an insurmountable objection to the idea of absolute coalescence; and that is the very slight resistance experienced by the heavenly bodies in their revolutions through space a resistance now ascertained, it is true, to exist in some degree, but which is, nevertheless, so slight as to have been quite overlooked by the sagacity even of newton .
i did not remain very long on the brow of the hill, although long enough to make a thorough survey of the scene at my feet .
 ''in your detail of the vision which presented itself to you amid the hills, you have described, with the minutest accuracy, the indian city of benares, upon the holy river .
here the case was very different; as might have been expected from the duke 's love of the bizarre .
 ''is it quite original? '' he inquired; touching it with reverence .
what to make of all this, of course i knew not .
he has merely repeated the individual items of the already published opinion; collecting them, with a laudable industry, from this paper and from that .
over against her, and upon the left of the dropsical lady, was seated a little puffy, wheezing, and gouty old man, whose cheeks reposed upon the shoulders of their owner, like two huge bladders of oporto wine .
 ''so it is sometimes termed, '' said he  .  ''we norwegians call it the moskoe ström, from the island of moskoe in the midway. ''
having finished reading, he begged me, with the blandest of all possible smiles, to be seated, while he made reference to the treatise in question .
it is our safeguard against injury .
after the very minute and elaborate paper by arago, to say nothing of the summary in     'silliman's journal,' with the detailed statement just published by lieutenant maury, it will not be supposed, of course, that in offering a few hurried remarks in reference to von kempelen's discovery, i have any design to look at the subject in a scientific point of view .
there were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding at the pores, with dissolution .
jupiter and myself are going upon an expedition into the hills, upon the main land, and, in this expedition we shall need the aid of some person in whom we can confide .
a letter may be compressed into a thin spiral roll, not differing much in shape or bulk from a large knitting needle, and in this form it might be inserted into the rung of a chair, for example .
in fact, i was just in that condition of mind which prepares a young and susceptible man for any act of extravagance .
having threaded the mazes of this channel for some hours, the gloom deepening every moment, a sharp and unexpected turn of the vessel brought it suddenly, as if dropped from heaven, into a circular basin of very considerable extent when compared with the width of the gorge .
i thought the staircase would never have an end .
i had heard, at paris, that the institution of monsieur maillard was managed upon what is vulgarly termed the  ''system of soothing '' that all punishments were avoided that even confinement was seldom resorted to that the patients, while secretly watched, were left much apparent liberty, and that most of them were permitted to roam about the house and grounds in the ordinary apparel of persons in right mind .
they are they are this wild star it is now three centuries since, with clasped hands, and with streaming eyes, at the feet of my beloved i spoke it with a few passionate sentences into birth .
after a few experiments, they admitted him to be an unusually perfect state of mesmeric trance .
finally, throwing off his overcoat, he made one spring for the staircase and disappeared .
your geniuses are all arrant asses the greater the genius the greater the ass and to this rule there is no exception whatever .
in a word, nothing could more seriously disturb me, although i scrupulously concealed such disturbance, than any allusion to a similarity of mind, person, or condition existing between us .
a settled apathy, a gradual wasting away of the person, and frequent although transient affections of a partially cataleptical character, were the unusual diagnosis .
my curiosity was greatly excited, for i had hopes of passing on much farther to the north, and might possibly, at some period, find myself placed directly above the pole itself .
the reduction of this interval to its smallest possible dimension, becomes thus, at once, an object with the reasoner .
at length, after making several guesses of this nature, and being deceived in all this fact the fact of my invariable miscalculation set me upon a train of reflection that made my limbs again tremble, and my heart beat heavily once more .
presently our little boat gave herself a shake, just as a dog does in coming out of the water, and thus rid herself, in some measure, of the seas .
there was neither too much flesh, nor too little, neither rudeness nor fragility .
if ever mortal painted an idea, that mortal was roderick usher .
there is one dear topic, however, on which my memory fails me not .
you may take, it for granted, that when manuscript can be read it is never worth reading .
horror and fatality have been stalking abroad in all ages .
i could scarcely restrain my indignation while i perused the concluding portions of this diatribe .
our result is founded upon the following observations taken during frequent visits to the exhibition of maelzel .
how is it possible to extort a meaning from all this jargon about          'devil's seats,' 'death's heads,' and 'bishop's hotels?' ''  ''i confess, '' replied legrand,  ''that the matter still wears a serious aspect, when regarded with a casual glance .
 ''in the present case indeed in all cases of secret writing the first question regards the language of the cipher; for the principles of solution, so far, especially, as the more simple ciphers are concerned, depend upon, and are varied by, the genius of the particular idiom .
indeed, a strong relish for physical philosophy has, i fear, tinctured my mind with a very common error of this age i mean the habit of referring occurrences, even the least susceptible of such reference, to the principles of that science .
 ''and the paper on the walls? ''  ''yes . ''
we estimated the entire contents of the chest, that night, at a million and a half of dollars; and upon the subsequent disposal of the trinkets and jewels a few being retained for our own use, it was found that we had greatly undervalued the treasure .
pompey, bring me that leg '' here pompey handed the bundle, a very capital cork leg, already dressed, which it screwed on in a trice; and then it stood up before my eyes .
a third admitted him x entric, but no more .
i felt that i tottered upon the brink i averted my eyes there was a discordant hum of human voices there was a loud blast as of many trumpets there was a harsh grating as of a thousand thunders the fiery walls rushed back an outstretched arm caught my own as i fell, fainting, into the abyss .
 ''well, then, was it this eye or that through which you dropped the beetle? ''
down and still down, it came .
i now feel that i have reached a point of this narrative at which every reader will be startled into positive disbelief .
what the suspicion is, however, i will not say just yet .
does   'oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, know is he aware that we could not be paid to insert it? ''
in this year was the portrait taken .
the plunge into this pit i had avoided by the merest of accidents, i knew that surprise, or entrapment into torment, formed an important portion of all the grotesquerie of these dungeon deaths .
here we were permitted to have glass windows even to have them open and something like a distinct view of the country was attainable     .... pundit says that the route for the great kanadaw railroad must have been in some measure marked out about nine hundred years ago in fact, he goes so far as to assert that actual traces of a road are still discernible traces referable to a period quite as remote as that mentioned.
the air was cold and misty .
the most fetid and poisonous smells everywhere prevailed; and by the aid of that ghastly light which, even at midnight, never fails to emanate from a vapory and pestilential atmosphere, might be discerned lying in the by paths and alleys, or rotting in the windowless habitations, the carcass of many a nocturnal plunderer arrested by the hand of the plague in the very perpetration of his robbery .
for a moment i experienced all the pangs of suffocation; i became blind, and deaf, and giddy; and then some invisible fiend, i thought, struck me with his broad palm upon the back .
come we will leave to the left the loud harmony of the pleiades, and swoop outward from the throne into the starry meadows beyond orion, where, for pansies and violets, and heart 's ease, are the beds of the triplicate and triple tinted suns .
but at length, as the labor drew nearer to its conclusion, there were admitted none into the turret; for the painter had grown wild with the ardor of his work, and turned his eyes from canvas merely, even to regard the countenance of his wife .
and there is no quiet there, nor silence .
it was about the same period, if i remember aright, that, in an altercation of violence with him, in which he was more than usually thrown off his guard, and spoke and acted with an openness of demeanor rather foreign to his nature, i discovered, or fancied i discovered, in his accent, his air, and general appearance, a something which first startled, and then deeply interested me, by bringing to mind dim visions of my earliest infancy wild, confused and thronging memories of a time when memory herself was yet unborn .
what shall we think of a machine which can not only accomplish all this, but actually print off its elaborate results, when obtained, without the slightest intervention of the intellect of man?
 ''at present we must occupy ourselves with other investigations .
 ''well; you have heard, of course, the many stories current the thousand vague rumors afloat about money buried, somewhere upon the atlantic coast, by kidd and his associates .
in my most ungovernable moods i still retain a sense of propriety, et le chemin des passions me conduit as lord edouard in the  ''julie '' says it did him a la philosophie veritable .
there was also a moaning sound, not unlike the distant reverberation of surf, but more continuous, which, beginning with the first twilight, had grown in strength with the darkness .
by the by, doctor dubble l  . dee  '' myself.
i continued, as was my wont, to smile in his face, and he did not perceive that my smile now was at the thought of his immolation .
sir david brewster states the figure of the turk to be of the size of life but in fact it is far above the ordinary size .
thou dost feel that i shudder .
if so, why are there only traces of the assassinated girl?
these are handed to him, when, having slightly examined them, he says:   ''i don't much like this tobacco .
but it lay not in the power of images, or sensations, or impediments such as these, to stay the course of men who, naturally brave, and at that time especially, brimful of courage and of  ''humming stuff '' would have reeled, as straight as their condition might have permitted, undauntedly into the very jaws of death .
what other construction could i possibly put upon such conduct, on the part of a lady so beautiful so wealthy evidently so accomplished of so high breeding of so lofty a position in society in every regard so entirely respectable as i felt assured was madame lalande?
they abounded in the most ultra german opinions respecting the duello .
this difficulty of direct vision had troubled me more or less for the last forty eight hours; but my present enormous elevation brought closer together, as it were, the floating bodies of vapor, and the inconvenience became, of course, more and more palpable in proportion to my ascent .
the turk plays with his left arm .
during the whole of the day i continued to near the ice .
she became at length convalescent finally well .
we 'll have some thing else in the botanical line .
the drops of moisture trickle among the bones .
adjusting the focus of the telescope, i again looked, and now made it out to be a human skull .
 ''pretty much, but not altogether, '' said legrand .
the wild disorder of the room; the corpse thrust, with the head downward, up the chimney; the frightful mutilation of the body of the old lady; these considerations, with those just mentioned, and others which i need not mention, have sufficed to paralyze the powers, by putting completely at fault the boasted acumen, of the government agents .
the day was warm unusually so for the season there was hardly a breath of air stirring; and the multitude were in no bad humor at being now and then besprinkled with friendly showers of momentary duration, that fell from large white masses of cloud which chequered in a fitful manner the blue vault of the firmament .
a purse, or pocket book, being really lost, the loser inserts in one of the daily papers of a large city a fully descriptive advertisement .
but to morrow i die, and to day i would unburthen my soul .
such a thing as an unexplored, or even an unfrequently visited recess, amid its woods or groves, is not for a moment to be imagined .
i shudder at the thought of any, even the most trivial, incident, which may operate upon this intolerable agitation of soul .
nonsense who does not remember that, at such a time as this, the eye, like a shattered mirror, multiplies the images of its sorrow, and sees in innumerable far off places, the woe which is close at hand?
he, so refined, so intellectual, so fastidious, with so exquisite a perception of the faulty, and so keen an appreciation of the beautiful to be sure, the lady seemed especially fond of him particularly so in his absence when she made herself ridiculous by frequent quotations of what had been said by her  ''beloved husband, mr  . wyatt. ''
throw the ignoratio elenchi in his teeth, and, at once, you have him annihilated .
i studied him in his own works as well as in those of his european and american echoes .
having procured mortar, sand, and hair, with every possible precaution, i prepared a plaster which could not be distinguished from the old, and with this i very carefully went over the new brickwork .
he also frequently goes in rear of the figure to remove the chess men which it has taken, and which it deposits, when taken, on the box to the left to its own left of the board .
i touched upon my college indiscretions upon my extravagances upon my carousals upon my debts upon my flirtations .
this idea satisfied me, and i dismissed my curiosity for the nonce .
upon the inside of each of these i had to scrawl a few lines on any subject which occurred to me as sufficiently mysterious signing all the epistles tom dobson, or bobby tompkins, or anything in that way .
the same may be said of the flowers in her hat .
i will answer the advertisement, get the ourang outang, and keep it close until this matter has blown over . ' ''
i believe, to tell the truth, she always looked upon me as an idle boy, a mere make weight, good for nothing but building castles in the air, and was rather glad to get rid of me .
the mathematics are the science of form and quantity; mathematical reasoning is merely logic applied to observation upon form and quantity .
upon the winding up of the tragedy involved in the deaths of madame l 'espanaye and her daughter, the chevalier dismissed the affair at once from his attention, and relapsed into his old habits of moody reverie .
our conversation turned, naturally, upon the disaster, and especially upon the sad fate of poor wyatt .
i like him especially for one master stroke of cant, by which he has attained his reputation for ingenuity .
 ''your education may now be considered as finished it is high time you should scuffle for yourself and you cannot do a better thing than merely follow your nose so so so  '' here he kicked me down stairs and out of the door  ''so get out of my house, and god bless you '' as i felt within me the divine afflatus, i considered this accident rather fortunate than otherwise .
 ''you are mistaken; i know him well; he is both .
i exacted the most sacred oaths, that under no circumstances they would bury me until decomposition had so materially advanced as to render farther preservation impossible .
 ''there was still, however, another difficulty, which occasioned me some little disquietude .
 ''the waters of the river have a saffron and sickly hue; and they flow not onwards to the sea, but palpitate forever and forever beneath the red eye of the sun with a tumultuous and convulsive motion .
this is the best of all possible styles where the writer is in too great a hurry to think .
i saw nothing beyond what had been stated in the  ''gazette des tribunaux . ''
the two upper black spots look like eyes, eh? and the longer one at the bottom like a mouth and then the shape of the whole is oval . ''
 ''well, suppose it is, jup, '' replied legrand, somewhat more earnestly, it seemed to me, than the case demanded,  ''is that any reason for your letting the birds burn?
she bade me remember that i really even knew not who she was what were her prospects, her connections, her standing in society .
witness led the way up stairs .
pretensions to the discovery, in so serious a tone .
she stood erect in a singularly fragile canoe, and urged it with the mere phantom of an oar .
indeed, we have had enough .
 ''you are young yet, my friend, '' replied my host,  ''but the time will arrive when you will learn to judge for yourself of what is going on in the world, without trusting to the gossip of others .
among these may be mentioned, as having beyond doubt existed, firstly, the coach invented by m  . camus for the amusement of louis xiv when a child.
i shall not pretend to describe the feelings with which i gazed .
if, dating our inquiries from the body found, and thence tracing a murderer, we yet discover this body to be that of some other individual than marie; or, if starting from the living marie, we find her, yet find her unassassinated in either case we lose our labor; since it is monsieur g with whom we have to deal .
or it might have been that he became neither the one nor the other, in pursuance of an idea of his which i have already mentioned the idea, that in the contempt of ambition lay one of the essential principles of happiness on earth .
several of the syrians have already been devoured; but the general voice of the four footed patriots seems to be for eating up the cameleopard .
his temperament was markedly nervous, and rendered him a good subject for mesmeric experiment .
the result of the natural style of gardening, is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities in the prevalence of a healthy harmony and order than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles .
why did i rush upon my fate?
that the school, indeed, did not feel his design, perceive its accomplishment, and participate in his sneer, was, for many anxious months, a riddle i could not resolve .
i could find, indeed, but one vulnerable point, and that, lying in a personal peculiarity, arising, perhaps, from constitutional disease, would have been spared by any antagonist less at his wit 's end than myself; my rival had a weakness in the faucal or guttural organs, which precluded him from raising his voice at any time above a very low whisper .
to die laughing, must be the most glorious of all glorious deaths sir thomas more a very fine man was sir thomas more sir thomas more died laughing, you remember .
every cavity, apophysis, and curvature was imitated, and each bone executed its proper movements .
if, however, it so please your excellencies, i, the writer of this communication, am the identical hans pfaall himself .
her utterance of the romance in otello the tone with which she gave the words  ''sul mio sasso, '' in the capuletti is ringing in my memory yet .
it followed my footsteps with a pertinacity which it would be difficult to make the reader comprehend .
to be sure, it has a circulation of ,, and its subscription list has increased one fourth during the last month; but, on the other hand, the sums it disburses constantly for contributions are inconceivable .
he was indubitably a ''  ''how can you?
that the latter, creating the former, can, at will, control or modify it, is also unquestionable .
but this feeling soon gave place to irritation .
during the brightest days of her unparalleled beauty, most surely i had never loved her .
and   'oppodeldoc' whoever he is, has even the assurance to demand pay for this drivel .
i led them, at length, to his chamber .
could not make out what was said, but believed the language to be spanish .
 ''it was not a new terror that thus affected me, but the dawn of a more exciting hope .
he started with what he maintained to be axioms or  ''self evident truths, '' and thence proceeded  ''logically '' to results .
these fellows are always doing the most out of the way things in what they call an orderly manner .
 ''goodness gracious me '' i exclaimed, almost at the very instant that the rim of the spectacles had settled upon my nose  ''my goodness gracious me why, what can be the matter with these glasses? '' and taking them quickly off, i wiped them carefully with a silk handkerchief, and adjusted them again .
the upper part, where it had been doubled and folded, was all mildewed and rotten, and tore on its being opened     .....
it is this wild longing it is this eager vehemence of desire for life but for life that i have no power to portray no utterance capable of expressing .
 ''now, in english, the letter which most frequently occurs is e .
the taste of all the architects i have ever known leads them, for the sake of   'prospect,' to put up buildings on hill tops .
at length, with a deep sigh, he exclaimed, as if in a soliloquy,  ''and dis all cum ob de goole bug de putty goole bug de poor little goole bug, what i boosed in dat sabage kind ob style aint you shamed ob yourself, nigger?
this i at once saw could not be .
there is a real and very definite limit to optical discovery among the stars a limit whose nature need only be stated to be understood .
his voice varied rapidly from a tremulous indecision when the animal spirits seemed utterly in abeyance to that species of energetic concision that abrupt, weighty, unhurried, and hollow sounding enunciation that leaden, self balanced and perfectly modulated guttural utterance, which may be observed in the lost drunkard, or the irreclaimable eater of opium, during the periods of his most intense excitement .
have i not heard her footstep on the stair?
dupin was moving quickly to the door, when we again heard him coming up .
and again i sunk into visions of ligeia and again, what marvel that i shudder while i write, again there reached my ears a low sob from the region of the ebony bed .
scorning all restraint, it had clambered first to the lower roof then to the higher; and along the ridge of this latter it continued to writhe on, throwing out tendrils to the right and left, until at length it fairly attained the east gable, and fell trailing over the stairs .
the next morning he was quite recovered, so far as regarded his mere bodily health .
circumstances, and a certain bias of mind, have led me to take interest in such riddles, and it may well be doubted whether human ingenuity can construct an enigma of the kind which human ingenuity may not, by proper application, resolve .
lord cornwallis was surrendered for sausage  ''under the auspices of the washington monument association '' no doubt a charitable institution for the depositing of corner stones .
my teeth chatter as i speak, yet it is not with the chilliness of the night of the night without end .
he is easy easy as an old glove, or the damsels of ancient baiae .
presently i heard a slight groan, and i knew it was the groan of mortal terror .
it appears that, immediately after the discovery of the clothes as above described, the lifeless, or nearly lifeless body of st  . eustache, marie 's betrothed, was found in the vicinity of what all now supposed the scene of the outrage.
and the life of the ebony clock went out with that of the last of the gay .
i know not how adequately to describe it .
there was about it an evidence of great age and infirmity .
now there were hoary and time honored forests, and craggy precipices, and waterfalls tumbling with a loud noise into abysses without a bottom .
it appears that on the day of i am not positive about the date, a vast crowd of people, for purposes not specifically mentioned, were assembled in the great square of the exchange in the well conditioned city of rotterdam .
one thing, however, annoyed me not a little .
piles of death furniture floundered about .
the conditions we have imposed must be fulfilled to the letter, and that without a moment 's hesitation in failure of which fulfilment we decree that you do here be tied neck and heels together, and duly drowned as rebels in yon hogshead of october beer ''  ''a sentence a sentence a righteous and just sentence a glorious decree a most worthy and upright, and holy condemnation '' shouted the pest family altogether .
the mention of the galvanic battery, nevertheless, recalls to my memory a well known and very extraordinary case in point, where its action proved the means of restoring to animation a young attorney of london, who had been interred for two days .
  ''still '' said i,  ''and why shouldn't she be?
in many palaces, however, such suites form a long and straight vista, while the folding doors slide back nearly to the walls on either hand, so that the view of the whole extent is scarcely impeded .
the tastes of the duke were peculiar .
the sea is peculiarly phosphorescent .
all the bones of the right leg and arm were more or less shattered .
are such things the operation of ungoverned chance?
the denouncing of the assassins would have appeared, even to an idiot, the surest and sole means of relieving himself from suspicion .
as i put my foot over the threshold, i became aware of the figure of a youth about my own height, and habited in a white kerseymere morning frock, cut in the novel fashion of the one i myself wore at the moment .
thus saying, in order to obtain a more distinct view of my subject, i applied my thumb and forefinger to its nose, and causing it to assume a sitting position upon the ground, held it thus, at the length of my arm, while i continued my soliloquy .
i questioned the sleep waker again:  ''do you still feel pain in the breast, m . valdemar? ''
but now it appears that we had worked out our own destruction in the perversion of our taste, or rather in the blind neglect of its culture in the schools .
as madame lalande spoke english even less fluently than she wrote it, our conversation was necessarily in french .
there was another interval of utter insensibility; it was brief; for, upon again lapsing into life there had been no perceptible descent in the pendulum .
and here, having arranged the glasses in the ordinary form of spectacles, i applied them gingerly in their proper position; while madame simpson, adjusting her cap, and folding her arms, sat bolt upright in her chair, in a somewhat stiff and prim, and indeed, in a somewhat undignified position .
i would fain have them believe that i have been, in some measure, the slave of circumstances beyond human control .
i could not have said this; it is an absurdity .
in the concluding sentences it quoted the noble words of ariosto il pover hommy che non sera corty and have a combat tenty erry morty; thus comparing me to the hero who, in the heat of the combat, not perceiving that he was dead, continued to contest the battle with inextinguishable valor .
i do believe that i blushed with shame when this idea crossed my mind .
i know nothing, indeed, which so disfigures the countenance of a young person, or so impresses every feature with an air of demureness, if not altogether of sanctimoniousness and of age .
i should mention, too, that this limb was no farther subject to my will .
yet what business had i with hope?
the generality of the expression of l  'etoile is a mere perversion of the witness' phraseology .
the permission was obtained, and we proceeded at once to the rue morgue .
thus the affair died away, and was generally forgotten; for the girl, ostensibly to relieve herself from the impertinence of curiosity, soon bade a final adieu to the perfumer, and sought the shelter of her mother 's residence in the rue pavée saint andrée .
there was sufficient presence of mind it is supposed to remove the corpse; and yet a more positive evidence than the corpse itself whose features might have been quickly obliterated by decay, is allowed to lie conspicuously in the scene of the outrage i allude to the handkerchief with the name of the deceased .
the balloon was brought over the beach the tide being out and the sand hard, smooth, and admirably adapted for a descent, and the grapnel let go, which took firm hold at once .
the sentence the dread sentence of death was the last of distinct accentuation which reached my ears .
the extent of my renown will be best estimated by reference to the editorial opinions of the day .
in the present instance we see it doubled no less than five times, although the cryptograph is brief .
duns, in the meantime, left me little leisure for contemplation .
but who and what was this wilson?
it must exist, i argued; although it may exist in a state of infinite rarefaction .
for three days the body was preserved unburied, during which it had acquired a stony rigidity .
 ''who are you, pray? '' said i, with much dignity, although somewhat puzzled;  ''how did you get here?
his was a case in which i feel a deep interest a lot in which i sincerely sympathize .
 ''alfonzo garcio, undertaker, deposes that he resides in the rue morgue .
and although, to a careless thinker, it might appear a matter beyond doubt, that the alteration produced by her unhappy malady, in the moral condition of berenice, would afford me many objects for the exercise of that intense and abnormal meditation whose nature i have been at some trouble in explaining, yet such was not in any degree the case .
such, you will allow, is the massacre of a thousand jews .
it is not that the deity cannot modify his laws, but that we insult him in imagining a possible necessity for modification .
and i could not laugh with the demon, and he cursed me because i could not laugh .
 ''and now what are we to make of the argument, that the body found could not be that of marie rogêt, because, three days only having elapsed, this body was found floating?
see behold they are becoming rather are they not? ''
that it is an opinion very generally received, or which ought to be generally received, that the college of astronomers in the city of rotterdam, as well as other colleges in all other parts of the world, not to mention colleges and astronomers in general, are, to say the least of the matter, not a whit better, nor greater, nor wiser than they ought to be .
i believe the world has never yet seen, and that, unless through some series of accidents goading the noblest order of mind into distasteful exertion, the world will never behold, that full extent of triumphant execution, in the richer productions of art, of which the human nature is absolutely capable .
it proceeded from a fissure, about half an inch in width, extending entirely around the prison at the base of the walls, which thus appeared, and were, completely separated from the floor .
some poor fellow whom you address while choking with that chicken bone, and who therefore didn 't precisely understand what you were talking about .
  ''my child, '' and  ''my love, '' were the designations usually prompted by a father's affection, and the rigid seclusion of her days precluded all other intercourse .
 ''ahem rather civil that, i should observe . ''
 ''i now arose hurriedly, and in a state of fearful agitation for the fancy that i dreamed would serve me no longer .
as the strong man exults in his physical ability, delighting in such exercises as call his muscles into action, so glories the analyst in that moral activity which disentangles .
a trap door on the roof was nailed down very securely did not appear to have been opened for years .
and who shall calculate the immense influence upon social life upon arts upon commerce upon literature which will be the immediate result of the great principles of electro magnetics nor, is this all, let me assure you there is really no end to the march of invention .
many lustra had supervened .
and, hurriedly, he raised his head from his hand, and stood forth upon the rock and listened .
i rushed to the chair in which he sat .
they were even fuller than the fullest of the gazelle eyes of the tribe of the valley of nourjahad .
she turned aside her face, and again i saw only the chiselled contour of the back portion of the head .
in its surface were two iron staples, distant from each other about two feet, horizontally .
the neck of the animal, before arched, as if in compassion, over the prostrate body of its lord, was now extended, at full length, in the direction of the baron .
fronting him, sixthly and lastly, was situated a singularly stiff looking personage, who, being afflicted with paralysis, must, to speak seriously, have felt very ill at ease in his unaccommodating habiliments .
i did not wish, however, to lose gas at so early a period of the adventure, and so concluded to ascend for the present .
i cannot better describe the sensation which oppressed me than by saying that i could with difficulty shake off the belief of my having been acquainted with the being who stood before me, at some epoch very long ago some point of the past even infinitely remote .
should any one wish to purchase, or to inquire the price of an article, a bell is at hand, and this is considered amply sufficient .
we left m   . valdemar entirely undisturbed until about three o 'clock in the morning, when i approached him and found him in precisely the same condition as when dr. f went away that is to say, he lay in the same position; the pulse was imperceptible; the breathing was gentle scarcely noticeable, unless through the application of a mirror to the lips; the eyes were closed naturally; and the limbs were as rigid and as cold as marble.
man doth not yield himself to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will .
the only propelling force it ever exhibited, was the mere impetus acquired from the descent of the inclined plane; and this impetus carried the machine farther when the vanes were at rest, than when they were in motion a fact which sufficiently demonstrates their inutility; and in the absence of the propelling, which was also the sustaining power, the whole fabric would necessarily descend .
i therefore sought the knife which had been in my pocket, when led into the inquisitorial chamber; but it was gone; my clothes had been exchanged for a wrapper of coarse serge .
this was done, by fellows who had no pocket handkerchiefs  .   ' whether this idea is, or is not well founded, we will endeavor to see hereafter; but by 'fellows who have no pocket handkerchiefs' the editor intends the lowest class of ruffians.
there was something, however, in the appearance of this machine which caused me to regard it more attentively .
he gets up into the body of the turk just so high as to bring his eyes above the level of the chess board .
  ''at twenty minutes before nine o'clock that is to say, a short time prior to my closing up the mouth of the chamber, the mercury attained its limit, or ran down, in the barometer, which, as i mentioned before, was one of an extended construction .
during the autumn of , while on a tour through the extreme southern provinces of france, my route led me within a few miles of a certain maison de sante or private mad house, about which i had heard much in paris from my medical friends .
one night, near the closing in of september, she pressed this distressing subject with more than usual emphasis upon my attention .
fourthly, that hans pfaall himself, the drunken villain, and the three very idle gentlemen styled his creditors, were all seen, no longer than two or three days ago, in a tippling house in the suburbs, having just returned, with money in their pockets, from a trip beyond the sea .
from my first year until my fifth, he obliged me with very regular floggings .
this was the great obstacle to voyages of length .
could i believe my eyes?
at the epoch of this eventful tale, and periodically, for many years before and after, all england, but more especially the metropolis, resounded with the fearful cry of  ''plague '' the city was in a great measure depopulated and in those horrible regions, in the vicinity of the thames, where amid the dark, narrow, and filthy lanes and alleys, the demon of disease was supposed to have had his nativity, awe, terror, and superstition were alone to be found stalking abroad .
 ''i mean to say, '' continued dupin, while i merely laughed at his last observations,  ''that if the minister had been no more than a mathematician, the prefect would have been under no necessity of giving me this check .
 ''the health, '' he said,  ''attainable by other means than this is scarcely worth the name . ''
the grave was carelessly and loosely filled with an exceedingly porous soil; and thus some air was necessarily admitted .
the individual artificialities of the three latter were local diseases of the earth, and in their individual overthrows we had seen local remedies applied; but for the infected world at large i could anticipate no regeneration save in death .
these periodicals will undoubtedly accept any literary offal you may send them and as undoubtedly promise to pay for it . ''
he could not, i reflected, be so weak as not to see that the most intricate and remote recess of his hotel would be as open as his commonest closets to the eyes, to the probes, to the gimlets, and to the microscopes of the prefect .
p . is not god spirit?
i saw that the decrees of what to me was fate, were still issuing from those lips .
this was immediately done, and we commenced a gradual descent .
the first intelligence of the murder was brought us by g , in person .
mr  . crab having now paused in his discourse, the latter portion of which i found it impossible to comprehend, i ventured to suggest something about the remuneration which i had been taught to expect for my poem, by an announcement on the cover of the        ''lollipop, '' declaring that it, the  ''lollipop, ''  ''insisted upon being permitted to pay exorbitant prices for all accepted contributions; frequently expending more money for a single brief poem than the whole annual cost of the 'humdrum,' the 'rowdy dow,' and the 'goosetherumfoodle' combined. ''
when darkness came over the earth, i betook myself to bed, although it was for many hours afterward broad daylight all around my immediate situation .
it was with great difficulty that my wife, a servant, and myself, made our escape from the conflagration .
or was it a test of my strength of affection, that i should institute no inquiries upon this point?
i had so much of my old heart left, as to be at first grieved by this evident dislike on the part of a creature which had once so loved me .
the whole visible area partook in different degrees of a tint of pale yellow, and in some portions had acquired a brilliancy even painful to the eye .
 ''you are all mad every one of you .
upon my consenting, he thrust it forthwith into his waistcoat pocket, without the parchment in which it had been wrapped, and which i had continued to hold in my hand during his inspection .
in that chamber was i born .
 ''hold your tongues, every one of you '' said my host, in a great rage .
in the meantime, however, i had no notion of being thwarted touching the information i desired .
madame d  . recognized not only the scarf which was found in the thicket, but the dress which was discovered upon the corpse.
but the nucleus of the destroyer was now upon us; even here in aidenn, i shudder while i speak .
it is quite certain, however, that he is never to be seen during the exhibition of the chess player, although frequently visible just before and just after the exhibition .
diamonds, did you say? terrible wretches those kickapoos we are playing whist, if you please, mr . tattle however, this is the age of invention, most certainly the age, one may say the age par excellence speak french?
this consideration led sir george cayley to think only of adapting a propeller to some machine having of itself an independent power of support in a word, to a balloon; the idea, however, being novel, or original, with sir george, only so far as regards the mode of its application to practice .
shortly before, too, he has himself observed that the lens would not render perceptible objects of less than eighteen inches in diameter; but even this, as i have said, is giving the glass by far too great power .
i finally concluded that my senses were impressed by a certain air of gravity, sadness, or, still more properly, of weariness, which took something from the youth and freshness of the countenance, only to endow it with a seraphic tenderness and majesty, and thus, of course, to my enthusiastic and romantic temperment, with an interest tenfold .
i acknowledged his kindness in my best manner, and took leave of him at once, with a perfect understanding of the true state of affairs with a full comprehension of the mystery which had troubled me so long .
in the dog days his days have been the days of a dog .
here i knocked off the neck of a bottle which i drew from a long row of its fellows that lay upon the mould .
but, worse than all, neither the cats nor the pigs could put up any longer with the behavior of the little repeaters tied to their tails, and resented it by scampering all over the place, scratching and poking, and squeaking and screeching, and caterwauling and squalling, and flying into the faces, and running under the petticoats of the people, and creating altogether the most abominable din and confusion which it is possible for a reasonable person to conceive .
a sombre, yet beautiful and peaceful gloom here pervaded all things .
the intensity of the darkness seemed to oppress and stifle me .
to be handled with care . ''
i would have soothed i would have reasoned; but, in the intensity of her wild desire for life, for life but for life solace and reason were the uttermost folly .
there were several side dishes on the table, containing what appeared to be the ordinary french rabbit a very delicious morceau, which i can recommend .
i looked toward templeton .
i am almost ashamed to own yes, even in this felon 's cell, i am almost ashamed to own that the terror and horror with which the animal inspired me, had been heightened by one of the merest chimaeras it would be possible to conceive .
the place was dreadfully dreary and damp, and i became troubled with ennui .
there was nothing said or heard about the matter in the rue pavée st  . andrée, that reached even the occupants of the same building.
in an instant afterward he stood erect, confronting hermann; and so total an alteration of countenance in so short a period i certainly never saw before .
the traces of light wheels were evident; and although the tall shrubberies and overgrown undergrowth met overhead, there was no obstruction whatever below, even to the passage of a virginian mountain wagon the most aspiring vehicle, i take it, of its kind .
the door leading from the front room into the passage was locked, with the key on the inside .
seeing, however, a man, the precise counterpart of the felon, standing upright in the cart before their eyes, they were of so they expressed themselves, and, having communicated this opinion to one another, they took each a dram, and then knocked me down with the butt ends of their muskets .
for two hours my companion, who was a musical fanatico, gave his undivided attention to the stage; and, in the meantime, i amused myself by observing the audience, which consisted, in chief part, of the very elite of the city .
but of late, it is a rare thing that i sleep soundly at night .
we now take it for our model upon all themes, and are getting into rapid notice accordingly .
if we cannot comprehend god in his visible works, how then in his inconceivable thoughts, that call the works into being?
m  . beauvais did not return that night, but sent word to madame rogêt, at seven o 'clock, on wednesday evening, that an investigation was still in progress respecting her daughter.
he is frequently absent from home all night .
it consists in short sentences .
the point of view from which i first saw the valley, was not altogether, although it was nearly, the best point from which to survey the house .
we still ascended, and now only one step remained .
the gigantic magnitude and the immediately available nature of the sum, dazzled and bewildered all who thought upon the topic .
you may make a good deal of that little fact if properly worked .
that material injury to our globe or to its inhabitants would result from the apprehended contact, was an opinion which hourly lost ground among the wise; and the wise were now freely permitted to rule the reason and the fancy of the crowd .
to lighten the depression of his spirits, the baron hurried into the open air .
about a month after the loss of the  ''independence, '' i happened to meet captain hardy in broadway .
the artist had engaged passage for himself, wife, two sisters and a servant .
the adventurer, in digging the earth, happens to discover a peculiar metal for which the moon has a strong attraction, and straightway constructs of it a box, which, when cast loose from its terrestrial fastenings, flies with him, forthwith, to the satellite .
they parted; and in a smile of peculiar meaning, the teeth of the changed berenice disclosed themselves slowly to my view .
 ''i am not more sure that i breathe than i am that the letter is not at the hotel . ''
ise gittin to be skeered, i tell you .
you know, i presume, that laborers have for some months been employed in preparing the ground for a new fountain at paradise, the emperor 's principal pleasure garden .
by the utter simplicity, by the nakedness of his designs, he arrested and overawed attention .
        'sir' said he, gasping for breath, 'i can't never set up nothing without no o's  .' 'what do you mean by that?' growled the foreman, who was in a very ill humor at being kept so late.
as i rapidly made the mesmeric passes, amid ejaculations of  ''dead dead '' absolutely bursting from the tongue and not from the lips of the sufferer, his whole frame at once within the space of a single minute, or even less, shrunk crumbled absolutely rotted away beneath my hands .
a good hearted old irish nurse whom i shall not forget in my will took me up one day by the heels, when i was making more noise than was necessary, and swinging me round two or knocked my head into a cocked hat against the bedpost .
the truth is, i labored under the disadvantage of having no monkey and american streets are so muddy, and a democratic rabble is so obstrusive, and so full of demnition mischievous little boys .
he assured me one day, when i asked him for a new copy of horace, that the translation of  ''ta nascitur non fit '' was  ''a nasty poet for nothing fit '' a remark which i took in high dudgeon .
d n if i do ''  ''if you are afraid, jup, a great big negro like you, to take hold of a harmless little dead beetle, why you can carry it up by this string but, if you do not take it up with you in some way, i shall be under the necessity of breaking your head with this shovel . ''
when i had completed the drawing i gave it to you, and observed you narrowly until you returned it .
let me term it a mental pendulous pulsation .
 ''la musique, '' says marmontel, in those  ''contes moraux '' which in all our translations, we have insisted upon calling  ''moral tales, '' as if in mockery of their spirit  ''la musique est le seul des talents qui jouissent de lui meme; tous les autres veulent des temoins . ''
what struggle could have taken place what struggle so violent and so enduring as to have left its   'traces' in all directions between a weak and defenceless girl and the gang of ruffians imagined?
the quiet waters had closed placidly over their victim; and, although my own gondola was the only one in sight, many a stout swimmer, already in the stream, was seeking in vain upon the surface, the treasure which was to be found, alas only within the abyss .
 ''baconian, '' you must know, was an adjective invented as equivalent to hog ian and more euphonious and dignified .
my cognizance of the pit had become known to the inquisitorial agents the pit whose horrors had been destined for so bold a recusant as myself the pit, typical of hell, and regarded by rumor as the ultima thule of all their punishments .
this was, to be sure, a singular recontre, for i had not believed it possible that a cloud of this nature could be sustained at so great an elevation .
 ''i presume you expected to find a letter between the stamp and the signature . ''
with a proper caution and perseverance we shall infallibly trace this boat; for not only can the bargeman who picked it up identify it, but the rudder is at hand .
it was that of general lasalle .
for, to speak the truth, until of late years, that the heads of all the people have been set agog with politics, no better business than my own could an honest citizen of rotterdam either desire or deserve .
glancing to and fro, in a thousand reflections, from curtains which rolled from their cornices like cataracts of molten silver, the beams of natural glory mingled at length fitfully with the artificial light, and lay weltering in subdued masses upon a carpet of rich, liquid looking cloth of chili gold .
for the sisters, however, i could make no excuse .
jupiter, grinning from ear to ear, bustled about to prepare some marsh hens for supper .
the shutters of the front windows were seldom opened .
a very strange coincidence, indeed just what doctor dubble l  . dee would denominate an extraordinary concurrence of events.
a certain period elapses, and some unseen mysterious principle again sets in motion the magic pinions and the wizard wheels .
there entered three men, who introduced themselves, with perfect suavity, as officers of the police .
hereupon his grace rubbed his eyes, yawned, shrugged his shoulders, reflected .
then we have accurate rules .
what more would you have?  ''  ''but, sir, if you please, i don't remember that you paid me for the tobacco . ''
at first, as he spoke, there was a slight rushing movement of this group in the direction of the intruder, who at the moment was also near at hand, and now, with deliberate and stately step, made closer approach to the speaker .
the general impression, so far as we were enabled to glean it from the newspapers, seemed to be, that marie had been the victim of a gang of desperadoes that by these she had been borne across the river, maltreated and murdered .
i have before said, or should have said, that wilson was not, in the most remote degree, connected with my family .
le mercurie tuesday morning, june  .
valdemar, '' i said,  ''are you asleep? ''
he was an excellent  ''whip, '' however; and having doffed his cassock to put on a great coat, he drove the hack which conveyed the  ''happy couple '' out of town .
no sooner had i done this, than, with a bright smile irradiating all his features, he fell back upon his pillow and expired .
it was now the representation of an object that i shudder to name and for this, above all, i loathed, and dreaded, and would have rid myself of the monster had i dared it was now, i say, the image of a hideous of a ghastly thing of the gallows oh, mournful and terrible engine of horror and of crime of agony and of death and now was i indeed wretched beyond the wretchedness of mere humanity .
i closed the window, and the semblance of the whole nail was again perfect .
 ''dvelf '' they replied perfectly satisfied, and dropping their voices .
his manner at these moments was frigid and abstract; his eyes were vacant in expression; while his voice, usually a rich tenor, rose into a treble which would have sounded petulantly but for the deliberateness and entire distinctness of the enunciation .
a postscript, however, mentioned that adolphe le bon had been arrested and imprisoned although nothing appeared to criminate him, beyond the facts already detailed .
the frame was oval, richly gilded and filigreed in moresque .
i observed that the outlines of these monstrosities were sufficiently distinct, but that the colors seemed faded and blurred, as if from the effects of a damp atmosphere .
i tell you distinctly that i am going to punish you for all your impertinences by being as tedious, as discursive, as incoherent and as unsatisfactory as possible .
yet this should have been the case, and in an equal degree as at the surface of the earth, the actual gravity of bodies at either planet supposed in the ratio of the atmospheric condensation .
this peculiarity of character grew with my growth, and in my manhood, i derived from it one of my principal sources of pleasure .
this fact confirmed my preconceived idea .
 ''he is coming '' said somebody farther still .
it will be perceived, no doubt, from what i have already said, that the baron was one of those human anomalies now and then to be found, who make the science of mystification the study and the business of their lives .
this fact was unknown to the travelling companion who introduced me .
several extensive perforations existed; and, at one point, permanent adhesion to the ribs had taken place .
beyond these, the critical art can but suggest .
but in the draping of the apartment lay, alas the chief phantasy of all .
at the same moment there came a sound resembling the quick opening, and as rapid closing of a door overhead, while a faint gleam of light flashed suddenly through the gloom, and as suddenly faded away .
saw him sitting in a side box, in the second tier, between a fat lady and a lean one .
either the memory of past bliss is the anguish of to day, or the agonies which are, have their origin in the ecstasies which might have been .
but as it now began to strike, nobody had any time to attend to his manoeuvres, for they had all to count the strokes of the bell as it sounded .
but why shall i say more?
 ''it is this, '' i answered, producing a trowel from beneath the folds of my roquelaire .
for my part, i cannot conceive upon what data they have founded such an accusation .
the introduction of mirrors among the machinery could not have been intended to influence, in any degree, the machinery itself .
i am twenty two, you say, granted: indeed, you may as well call me, at once, twenty three .
he started to his feet and grasped his cudgel, but the next moment he fell back into his seat, trembling violently, and with the countenance of death itself .
i replied that i had entire confidence in his superior delicacy of feeling, and would abide by what he proposed .
it was the skeleton of his wife in her yet unmoulded shroud .
you know that the beginning is god .
the passions which had for centuries distinguished our race, came thronging with the fancies for which they had been equally noted, and together breathed a delirious bliss over the valley of the many colored grass .
having related all that was necessary for the fullest judicial conviction, i fell prostrate in a swoon .
it was thus that he spoke of the object of my visit, of his earnest desire to see me, and of the solace he expected me to afford him .
besides all this, the lawn 's velvet was exquisitely spotted with sheep a considerable flock of which roamed about the vale, in company with three tamed deer, and a vast number of brilliantly plumed ducks .
was it my own excited imagination or the misty influence of the atmosphere or the uncertain twilight of the chamber or the gray draperies which fell around her figure that caused in it so vacillating and indistinct an outline?
after a hurried and vain endeavor to thrust it in a drawer, she was forced to place it, open as it was, upon a table .
we even felt an unusual elasticity of frame and vivacity of mind .
a letter, however, had lately reached me in a distant part of the country a letter from him which, in its wildly importunate nature, had admitted of no other than a personal reply .
at nine, every morning, i called upon that individual for the clothes of the day .
there i suffered it to remain for many minutes, while i strove to imagine where and what i could be .
and a brute beast whose fellow i had contemptuously destroyed a brute beast to work out for me for me a man, fashioned in the image of the high god so much of insufferable wo alas neither by day nor by night knew i the blessing of rest any more during the former the creature left me no moment alone; and, in the latter, i started, hourly, from dreams of unutterable fear, to find the hot breath of the thing upon my face, and its vast weight an incarnate night mare that i had no power to shake off incumbent eternally upon my heart beneath the pressure of torments such as these, the feeble remnant of the good within me succumbed .
there lives no man who at some period has not been tormented, for example, by an earnest desire to tantalize a listener by circumlocution .
and here, in the prison house which has few secrets to disclose, there rolled away days and weeks and months; and the soul watched narrowly each second as it flew, and, without effort, took record of its flight without effort and without object .
and touching that mildew upon which the editor of le soleil so pertinaciously insists, that he employs the word no less than three times in the brief paragraph just quoted, is he really unaware of the nature of this mildew?
it was there, however, no longer; and breathing with greater freedom, i turned my glances to the pallid and rigid figure upon the bed .
but if you have no oven or big bell, at hand, and if you cannot conveniently tumble out of a balloon, or be swallowed up in an earthquake, or get stuck fast in a chimney, you will have to be contented with simply imagining some similar misadventure .
the star shaped flowers shrank into the stems of the trees, and appeared no more .
we will call them guesses then, and speak of them as such .
the force of this idea was much weakened, however, by the necessity which it involved of considering the disturbances abnormal and unadapted to any purpose .
all fools are poets; this the prefect feels; and he is merely guilty of a non distributio medii in thence inferring that all poets are fools . ''
it wits of course be understood that when a move is made at his own table, by the antagonist, the corresponding move is made at the box of the automaton, by maelzel himself, who then acts as the representative of the antagonist .
i was glad of this, for i wished to retain with me as much weight as i could carry, for reasons which will be explained in the sequel .
now, i was aware that mrs  . adelaide curtis, of albany, was the artist  's wife's mother, but then i looked upon the whole address as a mystification, intended especially for myself.
upon reaching the hut i rapped, as was my custom, and getting no reply, sought for the key where i knew it was secreted, unlocked the door and went in .
if a thief had taken any, why did he not take the best why did he not take all?
will not they be awaiting us at the palazzo, the lady fortunato and the rest?
the ms  . gave evidence of nervous agitation.
not that exactly either for the madmen had been free, but the keepers were shut up in cells forthwith, and treated, i am sorry to say, in a very cavalier manner . ''
god, with all the powers attributed to spirit, is but the perfection of matter .
 ''pay attention, then find the left eye of the skull . ''
they are well kept, though i say it myself; and, in my general habits of accuracy and punctuality, i am not to be beat by a clock .
 ''sunday, the seventh .
there was blood upon her white robes, and the evidence of some bitter struggle upon every portion of her emaciated frame .
the general burst of terrific grandeur was all that i beheld .
 ''true, '' said dupin, after a long and thoughtful whiff from his meerschaum,  ''although i have been guilty of certain doggrel myself . ''
words are impotent to convey any just idea of the fierceness of resistance with which she wrestled with the shadow .
what is he bawling about?
they gave us comparatively little trouble .
some other evening  '' kate .
thou shalt no longer, then, play the teian with time, but, being ignorant of the myrtle and the vine, thou shalt bear about with thee thy shroud on the earth, as do the moslemin at mecca  . ''  ''morella '' i cried,  ''morella how knowest thou this? '' but she turned away her face upon the pillow and a slight tremor coming over her limbs, she thus died, and i heard her voice no more.
leaving this drawer, as well as cupboard no    . open, maelzel now unlocks door no. , and door no. , which are discovered to be folding doors, opening into one and the same compartment.
hereupon legrand arose, with a grave and stately air, and brought me the beetle from a glass case in which it was enclosed .
startled at the sound, i sprang upon my feet: while the gondolier, letting slip his single oar, lost it in the pitchy darkness beyond a chance of recovery, and we were consequently left to the guidance of the current which here sets from the greater into the smaller channel .
of my country and of my family i have little to say .
what i have adduced, notwithstanding the minuteness with which i have adduced it, has been with the view, first, to show the folly of the positive and headlong assertions of le soleil, but secondly and chiefly, to bring you, by the most natural route, to a further contemplation of the doubt whether this assassination has, or has not been, the work of a gang .
among a multitude of opinions upon this delicate point some acute, some learned, some sufficiently the reverse i am able to select nothing which ought to be considered satisfactory .
i thought of pompey alas, i thought of love i thought of my many false steps which have been taken, and may be taken again .
their mark was speckled with the vivid alternate splendor of ebony and silver, and was smoother than all save the cheeks of eleonora; so that, but for the brilliant green of the huge leaves that spread from their summits in long, tremulous lines, dallying with the zephyrs, one might have fancied them giant serpents of syria doing homage to their sovereign the sun .
when it had become known that such was the enormous wealth inherited, there were, of course, many speculations as to the mode of its disposal .
when the time mentioned had expired, we had reached a depth of five feet, and yet no signs of any treasure became manifest .
this is the haunt of the few gentle fays who remain from the wreck of the race .
at the precise period, then, when this history properly commences, legs, and his fellow hugh tarpaulin, sat, each with both elbows resting upon the large oaken table in the middle of the floor, and with a hand upon either cheek .
in the daytime she performed, to the best of her ability, the part of her mistress whose person, it had been carefully ascertained, was unknown to any of the passengers on board .
i could merely agree with all paris in considering them an insoluble mystery .
by the way, who is mr . kissam?
the whole circuit of its walls did not exceed twenty five yards .
hearken for she speaks, and, heavens it is in the german of schiller  ''unt stubby duk, so stubby dun duk she duk she '' alas and are not her words too true?
 ''be ready, '' said dupin,  ''with your pistols, but neither use them nor show them until at a signal from myself . ''
beyond this indication of extensive decay, however, the fabric gave little token of instability .
about midway in the short vista which my dreamy vision took in, one small circular island, profusely verdured, reposed upon the bosom of the stream .
having finished the chapter, he closed the book, and demanded what i thought necessary to be done .
full of this purpose, i looked about me to find a friend whom i could entrust with a message to his daddyship, and as the editor of the  ''lollipop '' had given me marked tokens of regard, i at length concluded to seek assistance upon the present occasion .
the streets seemed innumerable, and crossed each other irregularly in all directions, but were rather long winding alleys than streets, and absolutely swarmed with inhabitants .
its close resemblance to the medicinal leech caused the mistake to be overlooked until too late .
there was no attention paid to that great point, the  ''fitness of things . ''
there can be no doubt, however, that he would meet with a ready sale for all the balderdash he can scribble, at the office of either the       'rowdy dow,' the 'lollipop,' or the 'goosetherumfoodle .' ''
never, in all my life, had i witnessed so lavish, so wasteful an expenditure of the good things of life .
for this reason i swung the beetle, and for this reason i let it fall it from the tree .
the night waned, and i worked hastily, but in silence .
besides, if mr . kissam actually did come upon the discovery he says he did, at the period designated nearly eight years ago how happens it that he took no steps, on the instant, to reap the immense benefits which the merest bumpkin must have known would have resulted to him individually, if not to the world at large, from the discovery?
i soon found that nearly all the company were well educated; and my host was a world of good humored anecdote in himself .
if i had not known where we were, and what we had to expect, i should not have recognised the place at all .
our telescopes and our mathematical investigations assure us on every hand notwithstanding the cant of the more ignorant of the priesthood that space, and therefore that bulk, is an important consideration in the eyes of the almighty .
many books and musical instruments lay scattered about, but failed to give any vitality to the scene .
but in the corridors that followed the suite, there stood, opposite to each window, a heavy tripod, bearing a brazier of fire that projected its rays through the tinted glass and so glaringly illumined the room .
one of these drawings was a scene of oriental luxury, or rather voluptuousness; another was a  ''carnival piece, '' spirited beyond compare; the third was a greek female head a face so divinely beautiful, and yet of an expression so provokingly indeterminate, never before arrested my attention .
the wind was rushing hurriedly behind the tapestries, and i wished to show her what, let me confess it, i could not all believe that those almost inarticulate breathings, and those very gentle variations of the figures upon the wall, were but the natural effects of that customary rushing of the wind .
this apparatus will require some little explanation, and your excellencies will please to bear in mind that my object, in the first place, was to surround myself and cat entirely with a barricade against the highly rarefied atmosphere in which i was existing, with the intention of introducing within this barricade, by means of my condenser, a quantity of this same atmosphere sufficiently condensed for the purposes of respiration .
after lying there some fifteen minutes, during which time i listened with all my ears to what was going on in the room, i came to same satisfactory denouement of this tragedy .
on the other hand, it is exceedingly difficult to believe that these articles could have remained in the thicket specified, for a longer period than a single week for a longer period than from one sunday to the next .
suddenly, he makes a dead halt, stoops, and picks up something from the ground in a very agitated manner .
corroborates the general testimony .
 ''oh no, we had no conveniences for keeping him here .
there is no back passage by which any one could have descended while the party proceeded up stairs .
i am still a very young man not yet twenty two years of age .
while i remained motionless, and busied in endeavors to collect my thought, the cold hand grasped me fiercely by the wrist, shaking it petulantly, while the gibbering voice said again:  ''arise did i not bid thee arise? ''  ''and who, '' i demanded,  ''art thou? ''  ''i have no name in the regions which i inhabit, '' replied the voice, mournfully;  ''i was mortal, but am fiend .
you do not mean to set at naught the well digested idea of centuries .
he had often talked about her in my presence, however, and in his usual style of enthusiasm .
let us not argue the matter .
i saw that some ten or twelve vibrations would bring the steel in actual contact with my robe, and with this observation there suddenly came over my spirit all the keen, collected calmness of despair .
and the over conscientious finder takes the fifty with marked reluctance, and throws the gentleman the book, as desired, while the steamboat fumes and fizzes on her way .
i observed also, with surprise, the immense size of these hands, the longest of which could not have been less than ten feet in length, and, where broadest, eight or nine inches in breadth .
the witnesses, as you remark, agreed about the gruff voice; they were here unanimous .
this was the last subject we discussed .
they relate that, on finding himself taken, kempelen seized the crucibles with both hands which were encased in gloves that afterwards turned out to be asbestic, and threw the contents on the tiled floor .
placed in our hands, such portion as details the following up of the apparently slight clew obtained by dupin .
upon detaching the slab, a cavity appeared, containing a leaden box filled with various coins, a long scroll of names, several documents which appear to resemble newspapers, with other matters of intense interest to the antiquarian there can be no doubt that all these are genuine amriccan relics belonging to the tribe called knickerbocker .
in none is there any effort at plausibility in the details of the voyage itself .
 ''man was made to mourn, '' says the poet .
to be happy at any one point we must have suffered at the same .
there was no flaw in any link of the chain .
what, in the name of everything hideous, did this mean?
it was the painted figure of time as he is commonly represented, save that, in lieu of a scythe, he held what, at a casual glance, i supposed to be the pictured image of a huge pendulum such as we see on antique clocks .
we soon found ourselves driving out to sea at the rate of not less, certainly, than fifty or sixty miles an hour, so that we came up with cape clear, at some forty miles to our north, before we had secured the rod, and had time to think what we were about .
this dread was not exactly a dread of physical evil and yet i should be at a loss how otherwise to define it .
it had a complete flush deck, with only a small hatch near the bow, and this hatch it had always been our custom to batten down when about to cross the ström, by way of precaution against the chopping seas .
the eyes rolled themselves slowly open, the pupils disappearing upwardly; the skin generally assumed a cadaverous hue, resembling not so much parchment as white paper; and the circular hectic spots which, hitherto, had been strongly defined in the centre of each cheek, went out at once .
i became my original self, and bent my steps eagerly homeward but the past had not lost the vividness of the real and not now, even for an instant, can i compel my understanding to regard it as a dream . ''
 ''if now, in addition to all these things, you have properly reflected upon the odd disorder of the chamber, we have gone so far as to combine the ideas of an agility astounding, a strength superhuman, a ferocity brutal, a butchery without motive, a grotesquerie in horror absolutely alien from humanity, and a voice foreign in tone to the ears of men of many nations, and devoid of all distinct or intelligible syllabification .
above all, i burn to know the incidents of your own passage through the dark valley and shadow .
he was a portly, fine looking gentleman of the old school, with a polished manner, and a certain air of gravity, dignity, and authority which was very impressive .
while i stood bewildered at the suddenness of this accident, which might have happened, nevertheless, to any one under the sun, and while i still continued incapable of sight, i was accosted by the angel of the odd, who proffered me his aid with a civility which i had no reason to expect .
 ''why, thank you upon second thoughts, no .
the wretchedness of earth is multiform .
the old man was dead .
the diddler himself flies to her assistance, and, giving his friend a comfortable thrashing, insists upon attending the lady to her own door .
his countenance was of a dark snuff color, and he had a long hooked nose, pea eyes, a wide mouth, and an excellent set of teeth, which latter he seemed anxious of displaying, as he was grinning from ear to ear .
his followers felt that he was not .
and the rock was gray, and ghastly, and tall, and the rock was gray .
i am aware that by many i shall be held to blame for speaking in a manner so cursory, of a transaction so impalpable .
but it is needless to say that i stood upon the principle of the thing .
a scrupulous method characterized my actions as well as my accounts .
we at once concluded that these mirrors were so placed to multiply to the vision some few pieces of machinery within the trunk so as to give it the appearance of being crowded with mechanism .
no words no sounds resembling words were by any witness mentioned as distinguishable .
when i afterward had time for reflection, i did not fail to attribute the extreme violence of the explosion, as regarded myself, to its proper cause my situation directly above it, and in the line of its greatest power .
men usually grow base by degrees .
i was thus deprived of the pleasure of seeing, although not of hearing, her sing .
its two general directions, as i have said, were first from west to east, and then from north to south .
we were rapidly approaching the mountains in the south; but our elevation was more than sufficient to enable us to pass them in safety .
the contemplation of their excellence tended, naturally, to discourage me by comparison with my own abortions; so that for a long time i labored in vain .
without despairing, however, i undertook the siege of a less implacable heart .
he is worshipped under the figure of a large stone pillar terminating at the summit in a cone or pyramid, whereby is denoted fire .
between the thicket and the river, the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore evidence of some heavy burthen having been dragged along it .
meantime, the ordinary affairs of men were discarded and all interests absorbed in a growing discussion, instituted by the philosophic, in respect to the cometary nature .
the right hand was clenched; the left partially open .
i soon grew as poor as a rat, and, having a wife and children to provide for, my burdens at length became intolerable, and i spent hour after hour in reflecting upon the most convenient method of putting an end to my life .
i took my visitors all over the house .
 ''a madman, '' i said,  ''has done this deed some raving maniac, escaped from a neighboring maison de santé . ''
the night promises fair .
bryant, in his very learned     'mythology,' mentions an analogous source of error, when he says that 'although the pagan fables are not believed, yet we forget ourselves continually, and make inferences from them as existing realities .'
all was rigorously self consistent .
the conversation, in the meantime, was spirited and general .
mimes, in the form of god on high, mutter and mumble low, and hither and thither fly; mere puppets they, who come and go at bidding of vast formless things that shift the scenery to and fro, flapping from out their condor wings invisible wo that motley drama oh, be sure it shall not be forgot with its phantom chased forever more, by a crowd that seize it not, through a circle that ever returneth in to the self same spot, and much of madness and more of sin and horror the soul of the plot .
this game is simple, and is played with marbles .
indeed, to say the truth, what little of its former self may then remain, will be found in so desolate and ruinous a state that the patriarch shall have removed his residence to damascus .
frederick was, at that time, in his fifteenth year .
had the letter been deposited within the range of their search, these fellows would, beyond a question, have found it . ''
scarcely had i dropped my head back into its original position, when there flashed upon my mind what i cannot better describe than as the unformed half of that idea of deliverance to which i have previously alluded, and of which a moiety only floated indeterminately through my brain when i raised food to my burning lips .
the proper position for one who cannot swim, is the upright position of the walker on land, with the head thrown fully back, and immersed; the mouth and nostrils alone remaining above the surface .
we examined, first, the furniture of each apartment .
alpha lyrae, although so very much larger than our sun, by the by, resembles him closely as regards its spots, its atmosphere, and in many other particulars .
at this point i interrupted your meditations to remark that as, in fact, he was a very little fellow that chantilly he would do better at the théâtre des variétés . ''
and yet all this might have been endured, if not approved, by the mad revellers around .
he would be as o wy as o wy could be .
every author should confine himself to matters of experience .
these ideas, once entertained, are sufficient of themselves, to suggest the notion of a man in the interior .
in about half an hour after her departure, the  ''large amount '' is seen to be a  ''counterfeit presentment, '' and the whole thing a capital diddle .
nothing has been written on this topic which can be considered as decisive and accordingly we find every where men of mechanical genius, of great general acuteness, and discriminative understanding, who make no scruple in pronouncing the automaton a pure machine, unconnected with human agency in its movements, and consequently, beyond all comparison, the most astonishing of the inventions of mankind .
the soiree would scarcely break up before two; and by this hour the vehicle was to be at the door, when, in the confusion occasioned by the departure of the company, madame l  . could easily enter it unobserved.
why is it folly to suppose that the murder was committed within five minutes after the girl  's quitting her mother's house?
visiters enter, look at furniture, and depart unheeded and unseen .
very usually he is saved from premature interment solely by the knowledge of his friends that he has been previously subject to catalepsy, by the consequent suspicion excited, and, above all, by the non appearance of decay .
the first two or three rounds having been played, he is in full possession of the contents of each hand, and thenceforward puts down his cards with as absolute a precision of purpose as if the rest of the party had turned outward the faces of their own .
  'the venerable chinese novel ju kiao li  .' good by introducing these few words with dexterity you will evince your intimate acquaintance with the language and literature of the chinese.
but dismiss the idle opinions of this print .
upon this hint he proceeded .
and the moon ceased to totter up its pathway to heaven and the thunder died away and the lightning did not flash and the clouds hung motionless and the waters sunk to their level and remained and the trees ceased to rock and the water lilies sighed no more and the murmur was heard no longer from among them, nor any shadow of sound throughout the vast illimitable desert .
to check this ascent, the only recourse is, or rather was, until mr  . green 's invention of the guide rope, the permission of the escape of gas from the valve; but, in the loss of gas, is a proportionate general loss of ascending power; so that, in a comparatively brief period, the best constructed balloon must necessarily exhaust all its resources, and come to the earth.
don   't crow, another time, before you're out of the woods does your mother know you're out?
some grumble but all submit, and the diddler goes home a wealthier man by some fifty or sixty dollars well earned .
yet what will the energy of true genius not effect?
and as years rolled away, and i gazed day after day upon her holy, and mild, and eloquent face, and poured over her maturing form, day after day did i discover new points of resemblance in the child to her mother, the melancholy and the dead .
i presume you will call the bug scarabæus caput hominis, or something of that kind there are many similar titles in the natural histories .
i was here, accordingly, thrown out at the sign of the  ''crow '' by which tavern the coach happened to be passing, without meeting with any farther accident than the breaking of both my arms, under the left hind wheel of the vehicle .
independently of the phthisis, the patient was suspected of aneurism of the aorta; but on this point the osseous symptoms rendered an exact diagnosis impossible .
wasn 't yesterday, sunday, i should like to know? '' all .
the first indication of revival was afforded by a partial descent of the iris .
allowing the remark to have applied in its full force to the outward demeanor of my acquaintance, i felt it, on that eventful morning, still more fully applicable to his moral temperament and character .
did you ever behold as lovely a woman? ''  ''she is very beautiful, no doubt, '' he said .
thus, in the latter instance, the body, as a general rule, would not sink at all a fact of which l 'etoile is evidently ignorant .
 ''the tragedy in the rue morgue .
we have thus this arrangement: the tree;?
dr   . m. says i ought to spell  ''cant '' with a capital k but i know better.
   ''true; and you will remember an expression attributed almost unanimously, by the evidence, to this voice, the expression, 'mon dieu' this, under the circumstances, has been justly characterized by one of the witnesses montani, the confectioner, as an expression of remonstrance or expostulation .
like the one i had at first seen in the hold, they all bore about them the marks of a hoary old age .
why need i paint, charmion, the now disenchained frenzy of mankind?
the head rebel was too cunning for that .
i dread the events of the future, not in themselves, but in their results .
 ''it is a servant of course, '' i said;  ''what a fool i am, not sooner to have thought of so obvious a solution '' and then i again repaired to the list but here i saw distinctly that no servant was to come with the party, although, in fact, it had been the original design to bring one for the words  ''and servant '' had been first written and then overscored .
at length i turned on my heel, livid with wrath, and inwardly consigning the whole tribe of the talbots to the innermost regions of erebus .
but the house how quaint an old building was this to me how veritably a palace of enchantment there was really no end to its windings to its incomprehensible subdivisions .
the natives suspend it by a cord from the ceiling and enjoy its fragrance for years .
from above, hung a chain of an unknown blood red metal its upper end lost, like the city of boston, parmi les nues .
the doctor, however, like all enthusiasts, had struggled hard to make a thorough convert of his pupil, and finally so far gained his point as to induce the sufferer to submit to numerous experiments .
could make out several words, but cannot now remember all .
berenice and i were cousins, and we grew up together in my paternal halls .
 ''d n the vagabonds '' said he, in so clear a tone that i positively started at the change,  ''d n the vagabonds they not only knocked in the roof of my mouth, but took the trouble to cut off at least seven eighths of my tongue .
it had been used, apparently, in remote feudal times, for the worst purposes of a donjon keep, and, in later days, as a place of deposit for powder, or some other highly combustible substance, as a portion of its floor, and the whole interior of a long archway through which we reached it, were carefully sheathed with copper .
this circumstance did not fail to give me the most heartful satisfaction, and i hailed it as a happy omen of ultimate success .
what it was that pompey saw so very peculiar in my appearance i have never yet been able to find out .
and now a partial and evanescent success .
  ''i have the honor to be, etc  ., your excellencies' very humble servant,  ''hans pfaall. ''
 ''keep it for my sake for the sake of her whom it too flatteringly represents .
after this there was a dead stillness, and i heard nothing more, upon either occasion, until nearly daybreak; unless, perhaps, i may mention a low sobbing, or murmuring sound, so very much suppressed as to be nearly inaudible if, indeed, the whole of this latter noise were not rather produced by my own imagination .
the heat became all at once intolerable .
i did so, saying:  ''m .
this event occurred about two years after the atrocity in the rue morgue .
when you have signed it, i will hand you the letter . ''
she amused us all very much .
 ''my father, '' i answered,  ''it is the study of nosology . ''
on quitting the invalid 's bed side to hold conversation with myself, doctors d and f had bidden him a final farewell .
but why shall i minutely detail the unspeakable horrors of that night?
i glanced at the painting hurriedly, and then closed my eyes .
for example  ''ex nihilo nihil fit '';  ''a body cannot act where it is not '';  ''there cannot exist antipodes '';  ''darkness cannot come out of light '' all these, and a dozen other similar propositions, formerly admitted without hesitation as axioms, were, even at the period of which i speak, seen to be untenable .
i engaged rooms in jermyn street, and sent her majesty the ninety ninth edition of the  ''nosology, '' with a portrait of the proboscis .
finding that no satisfaction was to be obtained of jupiter, whose whole intellect seemed to be absorbed by  ''de bug, '' i now stepped into the boat and made sail .
at six i had an appointment of consequence, which it was quite indispensable that i should keep .
listen you spoke thus:  'it is done it is most cheerfully agreed i sacrifice every feeling for your sake .
when this occurs, no second effort is made, but the arm continues its movement in the direction originally intended, precisely as if the piece were in the fingers .
there is no individual portion of the architecture and decoration of that bridal chamber which is not now visibly before me .
the conditions of the sentience had been here, he imagined, fulfilled in the method of collocation of these stones in the order of their arrangement, as well as in that of the many fungi which overspread them, and of the decayed trees which stood around above all, in the long undisturbed endurance of this arrangement, and in its reduplication in the still waters of the tarn .
its rim is about four feet deep .
 ''it is now noon or thereabouts we shall have time enough to get through with them all before midnight .
i cannot very well express to you the effect of this intelligence upon the people .
my bed was so contrived upon the floor of the car, as to bring my head, in lying down, immediately below the mouth of the pitcher .
he had found an unknown bivalve, forming a new genus, and, more than this, he had hunted down and secured, with jupiter 's assistance, a scarabæus which he believed to be totally new, but in respect to which he wished to have my opinion on the morrow .
newton owed it to kepler .
phantasies such as these, presenting themselves at night, extended their terrific influence far into my waking hours .
the solitude seemed absolutely virgin .
i continued to watch her unremittingly, although i was fully conscious of my rudeness in so doing .
a rapid smile shot over the countenance of the listener .
at length, however, i took courage, and did not hesitate to step firmly; endeavoring to cross in as direct a line as possible .
by ten, i had reason to believe its density considerably increased .
i am the signora psyche zenobia .
brevet brigadier general john a    . b. c. smith was the man was the man that was used up.
since my sojourn in the borough, they have had several special meetings, and have adopted these three important resolutions:  ''that it is wrong to alter the good old course of things: ''  ''that there is nothing tolerable out of vondervotteimittiss: '' and  ''that we will stick by our clocks and our cabbages . ''
as i thus mused, with half shut eyes, while the sun sank rapidly to rest, and eddying currents careered round and round the island, bearing upon their bosom large, dazzling, white flakes of the bark of the sycamore flakes which, in their multiform positions upon the water, a quick imagination might have converted into any thing it pleased, while i thus mused, it appeared to me that the form of one of those very fays about whom i had been pondering made its way slowly into the darkness from out the light at the western end of the island .
they left no nook or corner unexplored .
 ''the health, '' he said,  ''attainable by other means is scarcely worth the name . ''
you have demanded of me my hand upon the morrow .
i arose and argued about trifles, in a high key and with violent gesticulations; but the noise steadily increased .
i loathed her with a hatred belonging more to demon than to man .
moreover, some years ago maelzel visited richmond with his automata, and exhibited them, we believe, in the house now occupied by m  . bossieux as a dancing academy.
the accelerated rate of ascent thus obtained, carried me too rapidly, and without sufficient gradation, into a highly rarefied stratum of the atmosphere, and the result had nearly proved fatal to my expedition and to myself .
the fourth was furnished and lighted with orange the fifth with white the sixth with violet .
 ''piquant expressions .
the boat made a sharp half turn to larboard, and then shot off in its new direction like a thunderbolt .
a weekly paper, however, at length took up the theme; the corpse was disinterred, and a re examination instituted; but nothing was elicited beyond what has been already noted .
perhaps no exhibition of the kind has ever elicited so general attention as the chess player of maelzel .
there were no terms with which he was unwilling to comply, and there were none of which i failed to take the fullest advantage .
but thy days shall be days of sorrow that sorrow which is the most lasting of impressions, as the cypress is the most enduring of trees .
but the case is otherwise when the back door of the cupboard no  . i, is opened.
all vondervotteimittiss flew at once into a lamentable state of uproar .
thus armed at all points, i determined to make my wife believe that i was suddenly smitten with a passion for the stage .
the singular appearance of the cameleopard and the head of a man, has, it seems, given offence to the notions of propriety entertained, in general, by the wild animals domesticated in the city .
in their consequences, these events have terrified have tortured have destroyed me .
it had cut through the linen beneath .
there was no light of any kind emanating from lamp or candle within the suite of chambers .
the anemone, with great brilliancy, has no smell .
occasionally the poetic intellect that intellect which we now feel to have been the most exalted of all since those truths which to us were of the most enduring importance could only be reached by that analogy which speaks in proof tones to the imagination alone and to the unaided reason bears no weight occasionally did this poetic intellect proceed a step farther in the evolving of the vague idea of the philosophic, and find in the mystic parable that tells of the tree of knowledge, and of its forbidden fruit, death producing, a distinct intimation that knowledge was not meet for man in the infant condition of his soul .
it is only de late dat i am arrive, and not yet ave do opportunite for to l 'etudier .
he turns his back forever upon those dreadful shrubberies and flees as from the wrath to come .
i wished all this done that i might resign myself, if not to sleep, at least alternately to the contemplation of these pictures, and the perusal of a small volume which had been found upon the pillow, and which purported to criticise and describe them .
that man, as a race, should not become extinct, i saw that he must be  ''born again . ''
and now in the mere exaggeration of the prevailing character of these features, and of the expression they were wont to convey, lay so much of change that i doubted to whom i spoke .
for a moment of intense terror she paused upon the giddy pinnacle, as if in contemplation of her own sublimity, then trembled and tottered, and came down .
yet the promises of eleonora were not forgotten; for i heard the sounds of the swinging of the censers of the angels; and streams of a holy perfume floated ever and ever about the valley; and at lone hours, when my heart beat heavily, the winds that bathed my brow came unto me laden with soft sighs; and indistinct murmurs filled often the night air, and once oh, but once only i was awakened from a slumber, like the slumber of death, by the pressing of spiritual lips upon my own .
 ''here is something better .
their beauty was grecian, their deformity egyptian, their tout ensemble french .
his condition remained precisely the same .
his eyes were abnormally large, and round like those of a cat .
there was not an inch of any portion of the house which was not carefully searched .
and may it not thus happen that many far greater than milton have contentedly remained  ''mute and inglorious? ''
there is a certain amount of bulk of space to be accounted for in every cabinet .
i saw at once that the peculiarities of the design, of the vignetting, and of the frame, must have instantly dispelled such idea must have prevented even its momentary entertainment .
these berths, to be sure, were so exceedingly narrow as to be insufficient for more than one person; still, i could not comprehend why there were three state rooms for these four persons .
for himself, he added, he had, some years since, made the acquaintance of maillard, and would so far assist me as to ride up to the door and introduce me; although his feelings on the subject of lunacy would not permit of his entering the house .
my other apartments are by no means of the same order mere ultras of fashionable insipidity .
and at such moments was her beauty in my heated fancy thus it appeared perhaps the beauty of beings either above or apart from the earth the beauty of the fabulous houri of the turk .
returning home from some sailors ' frolic the night, or rather in the morning of the murder, he found the beast occupying his own bed room, into which it had broken from a closet adjoining, where it had been, as was thought, securely confined .
but he perpetually errs by being too deep or too shallow, for the matter in hand; and many a schoolboy is a better reasoner than he .
but wonders and wild fancies had been, of late days, strangely rife among mankind; and, although it was only with a few of the ignorant that actual apprehension prevailed, upon the announcement by astronomers of a new comet, yet this announcement was generally received with i know not what of agitation and mistrust .
nearly all that we have hitherto known of them is, that they were a portion of the knickerbocker tribe of savages infesting the continent at its first discovery by recorder riker, a knight of the golden fleece .
some of the medallions have a question inscribed on each side, both of which the magician answered in succession .
i took care, too, to have a nice little puddle at hand, which i could get at in a minute .
some trifling difficulty with bag, my attorney .
finally, i hazarded a remark .
not a single impediment lay in the wheel route not even a chip or dead twig .
i wrote him again, entreating him to forward one forthwith .
the shrill voice was that of an englishman is sure of this .
 ''the corpse, being supposed at the bottom of the river, will there remain until, by some means, its specific gravity again becomes less than that of the bulk of water which it displaces .
smith brevet brigadier general john a    . b. c. why, you know he 's the man ''  ''man, '' here broke in doctor drummummupp, at the top of his voice, and with a thump that came near knocking the pulpit about our ears;  ''man that is born of a woman hath but a short time to live; he cometh up and is cut down like a flower '' i started to the extremity of the pew, and perceived by the animated looks of the divine, that the wrath which had nearly proved fatal to the pulpit had been excited by the whispers of the lady and myself.
my nerves were very much affected, indeed, by these yells; but the rest of the company i really pitied .
fragments of dress were discovered on the brambles around .
he, at length, became so obstreperous that we grew fearful of his giving the alarm to some stragglers in the vicinity; or, rather, this was the apprehension of legrand; for myself, i should have rejoiced at any interruption which might have enabled me to get the wanderer home .
prone, at all times, to abstraction, i readily fell in with his humor; and, continuing to occupy our chambers in the faubourg saint germain, we gave the future to the winds, and slumbered tranquilly in the present, weaving the dull world around us into dreams .
they sleep at a distance from their master 's apartment, and, being chiefly neapolitans, are readily made drunk .
despair such as no other species of wretchedness ever calls into being despair alone urged me, after long irresolution, to uplift the heavy lids of my eyes .
passing out of the closet with their prisoner, the officers went through a sort of ante chamber, in which nothing material was found, to the chemist 's sleeping room .
small eyes, of no particular color, twinkled far back in his head .
my eyes, also, gave me great uneasiness .
and, through all, i wrote .
we saw at a glance that the doom of the unfortunate artist was sealed .
i found him well educated, with unusual powers of mind, but infected with misanthropy, and subject to perverse moods of alternate enthusiasm and melancholy .
i rejoice, my dear friend, that we live in an age so enlightened that no such a thing as an individual is supposed to exist .
i agree with buffon with hogarth it is but diligence after all .
the note arriving at maturity, the diddler, with the diddler 's dog, calls upon the friend, and the promise to pay is made the topic of discussion .
now you yourself, my dearest eugenie, can have numbered no more than can have numbered no more than no more than than than than  '' here i paused for an instant, in the expectation that madame lalande would interrupt me by supplying her true age .
i frequently engaged him in play, and contrived, with the gambler 's usual art, to let him win considerable sums, the more effectually to entangle him in my snares .
 ''matters being thus arranged, i contrived, by the aid of my wife and with the greatest secrecy and caution, to dispose of what property i had remaining, and to borrow, in small sums, under various pretences, and without paying any attention to my future means of repayment, no inconsiderable quantity of ready money .
 ''what de matter now, massa? '' said jup, evidently shamed into compliance;  ''always want for to raise fuss wid old nigger .
the captain of a ship, which is about to sail, is presented by an official looking person with an unusually moderate bill of city charges .
yet, as she had foretold, her child, to which in dying she had given birth, which breathed not until the mother breathed no more, her child, a daughter, lived .
while i remained in speechless astonishment at behavior so alarming, he suddenly leaped to his feet and made a rush at the bell rope; but just as he reached this, he appeared to have altered his intention, whatever it was, for he dived under a table and immediately re appeared with a cudgel .
overreaching the wide horizon as the rainbow, its hues are as various as the hues of that arch as distinct too, yet as intimately blended .
in his explanation of this phraseology, mr  . ellison did much towards solving what has always seemed to me an enigma.
to promenade, as usual, and large customer brought fat man                                                       ..................................................... aug. .
the points of the compass, too, are in inextricable confusion; the writer appearing to be ignorant that, on a lunar map, these are not in accordance with terrestrial points; the east being to the left, etc     . deceived, perhaps, by the vague titles, mare nubium, mare tranquillitatis, mare faecunditatis, etc., given to the dark spots by former astronomers, mr. l. has entered into details regarding oceans and other large bodies of water in the moon; whereas there is no astronomical point more positively ascertained than that no such bodies exist there.
the rim of ice to the northward was growing more and more apparent .
in both, it is of the lowest order of merit .
let me pause to observe that the complexion of this man is dark and swarthy; it was no common swarthiness which constituted the sole point of remembrance, both as regards valence and madame deluc .
amid the thought of the fiery destruction that impended, the idea of the coolness of the well came over my soul like balm .
and, with these words upon her lips, she yielded up her innocent life, putting an end to the first epoch of my own .
i mean the fact which none but the ignorant dispute, that no such combinations of scenery exist in nature as the painter of genius has in his power to produce .
it has since been to me a matter of deep regret that an awkward accident, at this time, occasioned me the loss of my little family of cats, and deprived me of the insight into this matter which a continued experiment might have afforded .
yet neither the mandate of the monarch, nor the huge barriers erected at the entrances of the streets, nor the prospect of that loathsome death which, with almost absolute certainty, overwhelmed the wretch whom no peril could deter from the adventure, prevented the unfurnished and untenanted dwellings from being stripped, by the hand of nightly rapine, of every article, such as iron, brass, or lead work, which could in any manner be turned to a profitable account .
on the morning of the first day of the next month, the landlady does not present her bill, according to promise a piece of neglect for which the comfortable head of the house ending in ogs would no doubt have chided her severely, could he have been prevailed upon to remain in town a day or two for that purpose .
well do i remember these conversations, dear monos; but the epoch of the fiery overthrow was not so near at hand as we believed, and as the corruption you indicate did surely warrant us in believing .
the exceeding tenuity of the object of our dread was apparent; for all heavenly objects were plainly visible through it .
an intensity in thought, action, or speech, was possibly, in her, a result, or at least an index, of that gigantic volition which, during our long intercourse, failed to give other and more immediate evidence of its existence .
but there is one pleasure still within the reach of fallen mortality and perhaps only one which owes even more than does music to the accessory sentiment of seclusion .
i mean the way he has     'de nier ce qui est, et d'expliquer ce qui n'est pas .' ''
we know that there are diseases in which occur total cessations of all the apparent functions of vitality, and yet in which these cessations are merely suspensions, properly so called .
as if by some sudden convulsive exertion, reason had at once hurled superstition from her throne .
at the end of the tenth day it was thought advisable to double the sum originally proposed; and, at length, the second week having elapsed without leading to any discoveries, and the prejudice which always exists in paris against the police having given vent to itself in several serious émeutes, the prefect took it upon himself to offer the sum of twenty thousand francs  ''for the conviction of the assassin, '' or, if more than one should prove to have been implicated,  ''for the conviction of any one of the assassins . ''
but decomposition is modified by innumerable circumstances is hastened or retarded by innumerable agencies; for example, by the heat or cold of the season, by the mineral impregnation or purity of the water, by its depth or shallowness, by its currency or stagnation, by the temperament of the body, by its infection or freedom from disease before death .
i now too late discovered the great rashness of which i had been guilty in discharging the ballast, and my agitation was excessive .
 ''i paid especial attention to a large writing table near which he sat, and upon which lay confusedly, some miscellaneous letters and other papers, with one or two musical instruments and a few books .
for example, an arrant simpleton is his opponent, and, holding up his closed hand, asks,       'are they even or odd?' our schoolboy replies, 'odd,' and loses; but upon the second trial he wins, for he then says to himself, 'the simpleton had them even upon the first trial, and his amount of cunning is just sufficient to make him have them odd upon the second; i will therefore guess odd;' he guesses odd, and wins .
in other words, the sun 's attraction would be constantly attaining greater power, and the comet would be drawn nearer at every revolution .
i betook myself again to my nap, and at length a second time awoke, when, to my utter amazement, it still wanted twenty seven minutes of six .
he is that monstrum horrendum, an unprincipled man of genius .
i endeavored to reply, but my tongue refused its office .
the owner will, no doubt, insist upon rewarding you for your trouble  ''me no, you it was you who found the book . ''
its bearer, an inhabitant of the moon, whom i have prevailed upon, and properly instructed, to be my messenger to the earth, will await your excellencies ' pleasure, and return to me with the pardon in question, if it can, in any manner, be obtained .
the exhibiter, however, will suffer the most powerful loadstone to remain even upon the box during the whole of the exhibition .
nevertheless, that he failed in the solution of this mystery, is by no means that matter for wonder which he supposes it; for, in truth, our friend the prefect is somewhat too cunning to be profound .
this thing speaks for itself .
yet strange to say her large lustrous eyes were not turned downwards upon that grave wherein her brightest hope lay buried but riveted in a widely different direction the prison of the old republic is, i think, the stateliest building in all venice but how could that lady gaze so fixedly upon it, when beneath her lay stifling her only child?
to commence then: the nose, according to bartholinus, is that protuberance that bump that excrescence that  ''  ''will do, robert, '' interrupted the good old gentleman .
every morning i gave my proboscis a couple of pulls and swallowed a half dozen of drams .
the wine sparkled in his eyes and the bells jingled .
no one who trustingly consults and thoroughly questions his own soul, will be disposed to deny the entire radicalness of the propensity in question .
a lady is insulted in the street by a diddler 's accomplice .
he had a weak point this fortunato although in other regards he was a man to be respected and even feared .
 ''but i have just said that the figure was not that of a goat . ''
when i ran to uplift him, to all appearance he was dead .
mrs  . wyatt herself was far more agreeable.
i could not help, however, repeatedly observing, through the mingled tone of levity and solemnity with which he rapidly descanted upon matters of little importance, a certain air of trepidation a degree of nervous unction in action and in speech an unquiet excitability of manner which appeared to me at all times unaccountable, and upon some occasions even filled me with alarm .
we were at the bottom of one of these abysses, when a quick scream from my companion broke fearfully upon the night .
he enwrapped himself in generalities .
also in the absurdities of ravisius textor, there is a long list of characters who came to the same magnificent end .
the method of the theft was not less ingenious than bold .
this essay we suppose to have been the original of the pamphlet to which sir david brewster alludes in his letters on natural magic, and which he has no hesitation in declaring a thorough and satisfactory explanation .
 ''you perceive that aperture, pompey .
 ''i say approaches; for the night had not yet arrived .
i learn that when this species of telegraph was first put into operation by horse, it was considered quite impossible to convey the wires over sea, but now we are at a loss to comprehend where the difficulty lay so wags the world .
all this i saw indistinctly and by much effort: for my personal condition had been greatly changed during slumber .
i have already mentioned the suspicion to be excited by the fact that the articles in question were suffered to remain at all in the thicket where discovered .
the walls, with one exception, had fallen in .
shaking in every limb, i groped my way back to the wall; resolving there to perish rather than risk the terrors of the wells, of which my imagination now pictured many in various positions about the dungeon .
perhaps it was this latter trait in wilson 's conduct, conjoined with our identity of name, and the mere accident of our having entered the school upon the same day, which set afloat the notion that we were brothers, among the senior classes in the academy .
the state of the room and of the bodies was described by this witness as we described them yesterday .
the body, as well as the head, was fearfully mutilated the former so much so as scarcely to retain any semblance of humanity .
i went below not without a full presentiment of evil .
 ''oh, good heavens who ever heard of such an idea? ''  ''a little too self evident . ''
the first impulse of an innocent man would have been to announce the outrage, and to aid in identifying the ruffians .
he looked for some in a drawer, but found none .
they formed a complex and magnificent toy, richly chased and filigreed, and gleaming with jewels, which, even in the deficient light, i could not help perceiving were of high value .
the result of investigation sent an electric thrill of the intensest terror through the universal heart of man .
the body found at the barrière du roule, was found under such circumstances as to leave us no room for embarrassment upon this important point .
 ''i cannot let you see my patients, '' he said,  ''just at present .
the trout, and some other varieties of fish, with which this pond seemed to be almost inconveniently crowded, had all the appearance of veritable flying fish .
the tortures endured, however, were indubitably quite equal for the time, to those of actual sepulture .
 ''then go one limb higher . ''
let us refer, for example, to the last instance but one, in which the combination; occurs not far from the end of the cipher .
that he was unique appeared so undeniable, that it was deemed impertinent to inquire wherein the uniquity consisted .
it was found in the bois de boulogne at a vast distance from the scene of that butchery .
the peculiar spirit of the skies, if i mistake not greatly, made itself manifest, not only in the physical orb of the earth, but in the souls, imaginations, and meditations of mankind .
 ''upon the resistance or, more properly, upon the support of an atmosphere, existing in the state of density imagined, i had, of course, entirely depended for the safety of my ultimate descent .
 ''the riddle, so far, was now unriddled .
from this rod it would have been impossible for any one to reach the window itself, to say nothing of entering it .
night arrived; and with its shadows a heavy discomfort .
but, not trusting to their eyes, i examined with my own .
they make a vast parade of measures; but, not unfrequently, these are so ill adapted to the objects proposed, as to put us in mind of monsieur jourdain 's calling for his robe de chambre pour mieux entendre la musique .
we do not believe that any reasonable objections can be urged against this solution of the automaton chess player .
between ten and eleven the streets are thronged, but not at so early a period as that designated .
let me see why these notes are all hundreds bless my soul a hundred is too much to take fifty would be quite enough, i am sure  ''cast off there '' says the captain .
the rat it was there that is to say, it was somewhere .
but the paintings kupris astarte astoreth a thousand and the same and rafaelle has beheld them yes, rafaelle has been here, for did he not paint the ?
i listened in an agony of superstitious terror but there was no repetition of the sound .
through its promptings we act without comprehensible object; or, if this shall be understood as a contradiction in terms, we may so far modify the proposition as to say, that through its promptings we act, for the reason that we should not .
how exceedingly strange that the altar of laughter should have survived all the others but in the present instance, '' he resumed, with a singular alteration of voice and manner,  ''i have no right to be merry at your expense .
 ''this is barely possible, '' said dupin .
his parting words made a deep impression upon my heart, and i hope i shall always remember them with gratitude .
worn out as we were, it was not in human nature to do more immediately .
these peculiarities of person appeared to cause him much annoyance, and he was continually alluding to them in a sort of half explanatory, half apologetic strain, which, when i first heard it, impressed me very painfully .
but contact was not in any degree dreaded; for the elements of all the comets were accurately known .
a circumstance so remarkable cannot be accidental .
 ''i see you are a pupil after my own heart .
i clearly perceive that the infinity of matter is no dream .
 ''no; hang abernethy ''  ''to be sure hang him and welcome .
all this she said with a charming air of naivete which enraptured while it grieved and convinced me .
nothing of any consequence happened during the day .
 ''come, '' i said, with decision,  ''we will go back; your health is precious .
as inventions, we should regard them with simple abhorrence .
 ''i see it i see it all .
i looked upon the scene before me upon the mere house, and the simple landscape features of the domain upon the bleak walls upon the vacant eye like windows upon a few rank sedges and upon a few white trunks of decayed trees with an utter depression of soul which i can compare to no earthly sensation more properly than to the after dream of the reveller upon opium the bitter lapse into everyday life the hideous dropping off of the veil .
we feel it advisable only to state, in brief, that the result desired was brought to pass; and that the prefect fulfilled punctually, although with reluctance, the terms of his compact with the chevalier .
but the whole thing was done with so much quietude so much nonchalance so much repose with so evident an air of the highest breeding, in short that nothing of mere effrontery was perceptible, and my sole sentiments were those of admiration and surprise .
wanderers in that happy valley through two luminous windows saw spirits moving musically to a lute 's well tunéd law, round about a throne, where sitting porphyrogene in state his glory well befitting, the ruler of the realm was seen .
but i shall never forget the emotions of wonder and horror with which i gazed, when, leaping through these windows, and down among us pele mele, fighting, stamping, scratching, and howling, there rushed a perfect army of what i took to be chimpanzees, ourang outangs, or big black baboons of the cape of good hope .
my sentiments were at once quieted and exalted .
i would really give fifty thousand francs to any one who would aid me in the matter . ''
it was my elder brother, and my heart leaped for joy, for i had made sure that he was overboard but the next moment all this joy was turned into horror for he put his mouth close to my ear, and screamed out the word   'moskoe ström'  ''no one ever will know what my feelings were at that moment .
i went as passenger having no other inducement than a kind of nervous restlessness which haunted me as a fiend .
i dwelt upon their peculiarities .
the wine flowed freely, and there were not wanting other and perhaps more dangerous seductions; so that the gray dawn had already faintly appeared in the east, while our delirious extravagance was at its height .
in general, this motion is the universal thought of the universal mind .
her kittens were quite lively, and so far evinced not the slightest sign of any uneasiness whatever .
and thus, too, it happened, perhaps, that before the last echoes of the last chime had utterly sunk into silence, there were many individuals in the crowd who had found leisure to become aware of the presence of a masked figure which had arrested the attention of no single individual before .
this is his aim his object his end .
here we used to remain until nearly time for slack water again, when we weighed and made for home .
a small iron safe was discovered under the bed not under the bedstead .
upon this i made an effort to get up, in order to put my threat into execution; but the ruffian just reached across the table very deliberately, and hitting me a tap on the forehead with the neck of one of the long bottles, knocked me back into the arm chair from which i had half arisen .
the proper gratification of the sentiment he instinctively felt to lie in the creation of novel forms of beauty .
he has never viewed from any steeple the glories of a metropolis .
i have had long experience in these affairs .
 ''there was another circumstance which tended to restore my self possession; and this was the cessation of the wind, which could not reach us in our present situation for, as you saw yourself, the belt of surf is considerably lower than the general bed of the ocean, and this latter now towered above us, a high, black, mountainous ridge .
the dress immediately beneath the frock was of fine muslin; and from this a slip eighteen inches wide had been torn entirely out torn very evenly and with great care .
let us see what they say: imprimus .
he had come like a thief in the night .
to be sure i arose from a sound slumber, with all my senses in confusion, to the contemplation of a very startling phenomenon, and one which, although expected, was not expected at the moment .
the true cause of the restriction is, perhaps, very different .
still a hundred or even two hundred miles an hour is slow travelling after all .
the extraordinary details which i am now called upon to make public, will be found to form, as regards sequence of time, the primary branch of a series of scarcely intelligible coincidences, whose secondary or concluding branch will be recognized by all readers in the late murder of mary cecila rogers, at new york .
it was evident, however, that just at this moment the fellow in the steeple was doing something that he had no business to do with the clock .
i was now out of employment for some months, but at length succeeded, by dint of great interest, in procuring a situation in the sham post .
we are not very prudish, to be sure, here in the south do pretty much as we please enjoy life, and all that sort of thing, you know  ''  ''to be sure, '' said i,  ''to be sure . ''
yet not the more could i define that sentiment, or analyze, or even steadily view it .
upon my mouldering bones there descended the coffin of una .
alludes to the frequent repetition of the phrase, la tendre zaire, in the french tragedy of that name .
in this respect i was actuated by that habitual prudence which has ever been my predominating trait .
the old man 's terror must have been extreme it grew louder, i say, louder every moment do you mark me well i have told you that i am nervous: so i am .
the question naturally arises  ''why are so many employed, when a single candle, or, at farthest, two, would have been amply sufficient to afford the spectators a clear view of the board, in a room otherwise so well lit up as the exhibition room always is when, moreover, if we suppose the machine a pure machine, there can be no necessity for so much light, or indeed any light at all, to enable it to perform its operations and when, especially, only a single candle is placed upon the table of the antagonist? ''
and darkness and decay and the red death held illimitable dominion over all .
but the stroke of the pendulum already pressed upon my bosom .
d and f are agreed that i cannot hold out beyond to morrow midnight; and i think they have hit the time very nearly .
no watch was set, and the crew, consisting principally of malays, stretched themselves deliberately upon deck .
i saw it with perfect distinctness all a dull blue, with a hideous veil over it that chilled the very marrow in my bones; but i could see nothing else of the old man 's face or person: for i had directed the ray as if by instinct, precisely upon the damned spot .
on the other hand, what more obvious and effectual method could there be of exciting a disbelief in the automaton 's being a pure machine, than by withholding such explicit declaration?
the voice is termed by one witness   'harsh rather than shrill .'
and, indeed, if ever she, the wan and the misty winged ashtophet of idolatrous egypt, presided, as they tell, over marriages ill omened, then most surely she presided over mine .
her voice grew more gentle grew more low yet i would not wish to dwell upon the wild meaning of the quietly uttered words .
legrand, however, although evidently much disconcerted, wiped his brow thoughtfully and recommenced .
as to personal endowments, i am by no means deficient .
and now the memory has so far regained its dominion, that, in some measure, i am cognizant of my state .
i held them in every light .
it was on the tenth day of july, , a day which the people of this part of the world will never forget for it was one in which blew the most terrible hurricane that ever came out of the heavens .
many persons, i considered, are prone to estimate commodities in their possession however valueless to the then proprietor however troublesome, or distressing in direct ratio with the advantages to be derived by others from their attainment, or by themselves from their abandonment .
i say     'his wishes,' for that he meant to include this note book among the miscellaneous papers directed 'to be burnt,' i think there can be no manner of doubt .
the ossification had proceeded with very unusual rapidity; no sign of it had been discovered a month before, and the adhesion had only been observed during the three previous days .
from five to fifteen, he threatened me, hourly, with the house of correction .
the instrumental performers were many and of superior talents .
the prospect was sublime .
their light, in dying, enabled us just to perceive that a stranger had entered, about my own height, and closely muffled in a cloak .
therefore it was not thrown in by murderers .
you have a fine nose, it is true; but then bluddennuff has none .
the meditations were never pleasurable; and, at the termination of the reverie, the first cause, so far from being out of sight, had attained that supernaturally exaggerated interest which was the prevailing feature of the disease .
as i approached m  . valdemar i made a kind of half effort to influence his right arm into pursuit of my own, as i passed the latter gently to and fro above his person.
a coachman held the reins on the box, and a footman and page were in their places behind .
mem must get rid of bag no system at all .
my body was, but i had no breath to be, suspended; and but for the knot under my left ear which had the feel of a military stock i dare say that i should have experienced very little inconvenience .
even while i gazed, this current acquired a monstrous velocity .
it stood like a huge writhing wall between us and the horizon .
there is the tone didactic, the tone enthusiastic, the tone natural all common place enough .
heard the voices in question .
should i then, after all, prove to have been mistaken, i had in consequence nothing better to expect, as a finale to my adventure, than being dashed into atoms against the rugged surface of the satellite .
the fact that it had been thrust up the chimney would sufficiently account for these appearances .
there were circumstances, moreover, which coupled with late events, gave an unearthly and portentous character to the mania of the rider, and to the capabilities of the steed .
the seeming creatures which are now, throughout the universe, so perpetually springing into being, can only be considered as the mediate or indirect, not as the direct or immediate results of the divine creative power .
it was hard to conceive how all this beauty had been attained .
all in the immediate vicinity of the ship is the blackness of eternal night, and a chaos of foamless water; but, about a league on either side of us, may be seen, indistinctly and at intervals, stupendous ramparts of ice, towering away into the desolate sky, and looking like the walls of the universe .
then we sallied forth into the streets arm in arm, continuing the topics of the day, or roaming far and wide until a late hour, seeking, amid the wild lights and shadows of the populous city, that infinity of mental excitement which quiet observation can afford .
in the greenest of our valleys, by good angels tenanted, once a fair and stately palace radiant palace reared its head .
i shall from time to time continue this journal .
and, when seen, there will be some to disbelieve, and some to doubt, and yet a few who will find much to ponder upon in the characters here graven with a stylus of iron .
but ours is that which went by the name of antiochia epidaphne, from its vicinity to the little village of daphne, where stood a temple to that divinity .
the change you might as well give to me i shall want some silver for the post office .
several circumstances occurred immediately after this fit of wyatt which contributed to heighten the curiosity with which i was already possessed .
then you must be blind .
  ''i beg both your pardons but i can't be so much mistaken .
now, of all words in the language,   'the' is most usual; let us see, therefore, whether there are not repetitions of any three characters, in the same order of collocation, the last of them being  .
seeing a chair close at hand, for the use of customers, i threw myself doggedly into it, and, hardly knowing why, opened the pages of the first volume which came within my reach .
to tear a piece from the interior, where no edge is presented, could only be effected by a miracle through the agency of thorns, and no one thorn could accomplish it .
the chest had been full to the brim, and we spent the whole day, and the greater part of the next night, in a scrutiny of its contents .
but although i, oinos, felt that the eyes of the departed were upon me, still i forced myself not to perceive the bitterness of their expression, and gazing down steadily into the depths of the ebony mirror, sang with a loud and sonorous voice the songs of the son of teios .
the fact is, the business is very simple indeed, and i make no doubt that we can manage it sufficiently well ourselves; but then i thought dupin would like to hear the details of it, because it is so excessively odd  . ''  ''simple and odd, '' said dupin.
it is then only from these two apartments that we have to seek issues .
his limbs were exceedingly long and emaciated .
i was not within the vault .
he discoursed of cimabué, arpino, carpaccio, and argostino of the gloom of caravaggio, of the amenity of albano, of the colors of titian, of the frows of rubens, and of the waggeries of jan steen .
 ''paul dumas, physician, deposes that he was called to view the bodies about day break .
the grass was short, springy, sweet scented, and asphodel interspersed .
there were buffoons, there were improvisatori, there were ballet dancers, there were musicians, there was beauty, there was wine .
upon arousing, i found by my side, as before, a loaf and a pitcher of water .
in this manner, the hand which is gloved and bent in a natural way, being brought directly above the piece to be moved, descends finally upon it, the fingers receiving it, in most cases, without difficulty .
my bill ran thus: messrs  . cut comeagain, merchant tailors.
for example, the floor was uncarpeted; in france, however, a carpet is frequently dispensed with .
i soon, however, found that, perhaps on account of her presburg education, she placed before me a number of those mystical writings which are usually considered the mere dross of the early german literature .
and in the contour of the high forehead, and in the ringlets of the silken hair, and in the wan fingers which buried themselves therein, and in the sad musical tones of her speech, and above all oh, above all, in the phrases and expressions of the dead on the lips of the loved and the living, i found food for consuming thought and horror, for a worm that would not die .
but while we were up i had thrown a quick glance around and that one glance was all sufficient .
upon exhibition of ether he revived and was rapidly restored to health, and to the society of his friends from whom, however, all knowledge of his resuscitation was withheld, until a relapse was no longer to be apprehended .
it is a bye street very lonely .
if, moreover, a body has risen to the surface through firing of cannon, it will not   'sink again if let alone,' until decomposition has so far progressed as to permit the escape of the generated gas .
perspiration burst from every pore, and stood in cold big beads upon my forehead .
that at the eastern extremity was hung, for example, in blue and vividly blue were its windows .
he told us what had become of the eighty three lost tragedies of æschylus; of the fifty four orations of isæus; of the three hundred and ninety one speeches of lysias; of the hundred and eighty treatises of theophrastus; of the eighth book of the conic sections of apollonius; of pindar 's hymns and dithyrambics; and of the five and forty tragedies of homer junior .
just before day, we were all somewhat alarmed at some odd noises and concussions in the balloon, accompanied with the apparent rapid subsidence of the whole machine .
 ''and the motto? ''  ''nemo me impune lacessit . ''
in a word, upon the breaking up of the play, i traced the lady to her residence, noted the address, and the next morning sent her a full and elaborate letter, in which i poured out my whole heart .
saying this, he seated himself at a small table, on which were a pen and ink, but no paper .
but to return to the   'diary' of sir humphrey davy .
i pitied him from the bottom of my heart but could not, for that reason, quite forgive his incommunicativeness in the matter of the  ''last supper . ''
my first observation was by way of opening a masked battery .
at nine on sunday, the populace are chiefly within doors preparing for church .
i suffered myself to use intemperate language to my wife .
i remarked that, while all the witnesses agreed in supposing the gruff voice to be that of a frenchman, there was much disagreement in regard to the shrill, or, as one individual termed it, the harsh voice .
now, uncle, all that kate and myself wish at present, is that you would oblige us with your advice as as regards the time you know, uncle in short, when will it be most convenient for yourself, that the wedding shall shall come off, you know? ''  ''come off, you scoundrel what do you mean by that?
valdemar i received this note within half an hour after it was written, and in fifteen minutes more i was in the dying man 's chamber .
i have already described the unnatural curiosity which had taken the place of my original terrors .
and oh jupiter, and every one of the gods and goddesses, little and big what what what what had become of her teeth?
was born in the neighborhood, and has always resided there .
 ''und you acknowledge tat you pe te blind dronk and te vool? ''
the other limb, confined by no such fetter, stuck off from the body at right angles, causing the whole loose and rattling frame to dangle and twirl about at the caprice of every occasional puff of wind which found its way into the apartment .
the disorders of the room had, as usual, been suffered to exist .
i told the captain my fears; but he paid no attention to what i said, and left me without deigning to give a reply .
 ''and what is the difficulty now? ''
but the marchesa she will now receive her child she will press it to her heart she will cling to its little form, and smother it with her caresses .
let us examine, each by each, the possible means of egress .
i breathed, however, at every moment, with more and more difficulty, and each inhalation was attended with a troublesome spasmodic action of the chest .
in this i finally succeeded partly by selling enough of my household furniture to satisfy a moiety of their claim, and partly by a promise of paying the balance upon completion of a little project which i told them i had in view, and for assistance in which i solicited their services .
he did not press me to remain, but, as i departed, he shook my hand with even more than his usual cordiality .
i made haste, hereupon, to nod my head twice once in the negative, meaning thereby that i would prefer not taking the other bottle at present and once in the affirmative, intending thus to imply that i was sober and had positively come to my senses .
just as quietly, too, he walked toward the door, locked it and put the key in his pocket .
the account which he gave of his expedition, and of the events which had detained him, was a singular one indeed .
while thus engaged, however, a loud report, as if of a pistol, was heard immediately beneath the windows of the hotel, and was succeeded by a series of fearful screams, and the shoutings of a terrified mob .
or, if he begins to bluster, you may be down upon him with insomnia jovis, reveries of jupiter a phrase which silius italicus see here applies to thoughts pompous and inflated .
its character stupefied me with astonishment .
i was not, of course, at that time aware that this apparent paradox was occasioned by the center of the visual area being less susceptible of feeble impressions of light than the exterior portions of the retina .
the general shape of the prison was square .
all this i must acknowledge .
was surprised at finding the rim of ice at a very moderate distance, and an immense field of the same material stretching away off to the horizon in the north .
but if, in the first instance, there had occurred something which occasioned me surprise, in the second, this surprise became elevated into astonishment; and this astonishment was profound was extreme indeed i may say it was horrific .
the sound drives him mad, and, accordingly, pulling out his tablets, he gives a record of his sensations .
he must have foreseen, i reflected, the secret investigations of his premises .
this lakelet was, perhaps, a hundred yards in diameter at its widest part .
thus you may tell these characters immediately by the nature of their occupations .
you shall accept the little toy which i now hold in my hand, and which, though admirable as an aid to vision, is really of no very immense value as a gem .
without making any effectual resistance, i suffered myself to be placed between two gentlemen of colossal dimensions; while a third, of a size larger, requesting pardon for the liberty he was about to take, threw himself upon my body at full length, and falling asleep in an instant, drowned all my guttural ejaculations for relief, in a snore which would have put to blush the roarings of the bull of phalaris .
concealment is utter folly on my part, for the people will not see .
 ''never mind '' cries the gentleman on shore, who has been examining his own pocket book for the last minute or so  ''never mind i can fix it here is a fifty on the bank of north america throw the book . ''
the margin of the river, and of the many dazzling rivulets that glided through devious ways into its channel, as well as the spaces that extended from the margins away down into the depths of the streams until they reached the bed of pebbles at the bottom, these spots, not less than the whole surface of the valley, from the river to the mountains that girdled it in, were carpeted all by a soft green grass, thick, short, perfectly even, and vanilla perfumed, but so besprinkled throughout with the yellow buttercup, the white daisy, the purple violet, and the ruby red asphodel, that its exceeding beauty spoke to our hearts in loud tones, of the love and of the glory of god .
we had, to be sure, nearly every day a quarrel in which, yielding me publicly the palm of victory, he, in some manner, contrived to make me feel that it was he who had deserved it; yet a sense of pride on my part, and a veritable dignity on his own, kept us always upon what are called  ''speaking terms, '' while there were many points of strong congeniality in our tempers, operating to awake me in a sentiment which our position alone, perhaps, prevented from ripening into friendship .
i approached the artist and turned up my nose .
several individuals were arrested and discharged .
his agitation is represented as so excessive that the officers had not the slightest doubt of his guilt .
everybody knows how they are managed, since dr  . moneypenny explained it.
i should have been much more so, however, had not long experience advised me not to trust, with too implicit a reliance, the enthusiastic descriptions of my friend, the artist, when indulging in comments upon the loveliness of woman .
in europe, as yet, the most noticeable results have been a rise of two hundred per cent  . in the price of lead, and nearly twenty five per cent.
of this church the principal of our school was pastor .
 ''and the new system is one of your own invention? ''
she spoke again, and now more frequently and pertinaciously, of the sounds of the slight sounds and of the unusual motions among the tapestries, to which she had formerly alluded .
the body of mademoiselle l 'espanaye was so firmly wedged in the chimney that it could not be got down until four or five of the party united their strength .
but, for the inconceivable wealth in the actual possession of the young heir, these objects and all ordinary objects were felt to be inadequate .
it was only after the announcement that le bon had been imprisoned, that he asked me my opinion respecting the murders .
thus i shuddered at self murder as the most decided of atrocities while the tabby cat purred strenuously upon the rug, and the very water dog wheezed assiduously under the table, each taking to itself much merit for the strength of its lungs, and all obviously done in derision of my own pulmonary incapacity .
once i was myself a decorist; but that sublimation of folly has palled upon my soul .
our carousals here were many, and boisterous, and long, and never unfruitful of events .
i was possessed with a passion to discover .
eschew, in this case, big words; get them as small as possible, and write them upside down .
do you not perceive that the animal has the visage of a man?
but, to be brief, i must have my reward .
while he spoke, the lady madeline for so was she called passed slowly through a remote portion of the apartment, and, without having noticed my presence, disappeared .
until lately, the bare supposition of such a thing was considered heretical .
 ''and the man sat upon the rock, and leaned his head upon his hand, and looked out upon the desolation .
suddenly, the color fled, the pulsation ceased, the lips resumed the expression of the dead, and, in an instant afterward, the whole body took upon itself the icy chilliness, the livid hue, the intense rigidity, the sunken outline, and all the loathsome peculiarities of that which has been, for many days, a tenant of the tomb .
a single step cannot be taken without m     . beauvais; for, go which way you will, you run against him....
in truth the masquerade license of the night was nearly unlimited; but the figure in question had out heroded herod, and gone beyond the bounds of even the prince 's indefinite decorum .
the delusion, however, faded rapidly as it came; and i mention it at all but to define the day of the last conversation i there held with my singular namesake .
the      ''hum drum '' gave him a dressing after this fashion:  '''oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, has sent us a long tirade concerning a bedlamite whom he styles 'ugolino,' who had a great many children that should have been all whipped and sent to bed without their suppers .
now, all such reasoning and from such data must, of course, be simply analogical .
the negro obeyed him promptly, and apparently with but little trouble; ascending higher and higher, until no glimpse of his squat figure could be obtained through the dense foliage which enveloped it .
 ''in speaking of the lonely assassin dragging his burden to the shore, i have already suggested the probability of his availing himself of a boat .
then rushed upon me a thousand memories of ligeia and then came back upon my heart, with the turbulent violence of a flood, the whole of that unutterable wo with which i had regarded her thus enshrouded .
in an instant afterward i recollected myself, and my astonishment was profound .
 ''but how with a gang?
as i turned the corner of the gable, the mastiff bounded towards me in stern silence, but with the eye and the whole air of a tiger .
we established ourselves in one of the smallest and least sumptuously furnished apartments .
wonder if this o ing is a habit of his?
the inscription commemorates the surrender of what?
there were things around us and about of which i can render no distinct account things material and spiritual heaviness in the atmosphere a sense of suffocation anxiety and, above all, that terrible state of existence which the nervous experience when the senses are keenly living and awake, and meanwhile the powers of thought lie dormant .
the corpse could not have been trusted to the shallow waters of the shore .
like a razor also, it seemed massy and heavy, tapering from the edge into a solid and broad structure above .
it was, as i say, a half formed thought man has many such which are never completed .
and the lulling melody that had been softer than the wind harp of aeolus, and more divine than all save the voice of eleonora, it died little by little away, in murmurs growing lower and lower, until the stream returned, at length, utterly, into the solemnity of its original silence .
i have guarded, however, against any such profanation .
as i advanced in years it was more strongly developed; becoming, for many reasons, a cause of serious disquietude to my friends, and of positive injury to myself .
i was inclined, however, to the latter opinion .
the horrors of this dark deed are known only to one, or two, living human beings, and to god  .  ''let us sum up now the meagre yet certain fruits of our long analysis.
no pestilence had ever been so fatal, or so hideous .
the question of preeminence is forever put to rest, and hereafter it will be excessively preposterous in the       'hum drum,' the 'rowdy dow,' or the 'goosetherumfoodle,' to make any farther spasmodic attempts at competition .
a day or two before the prefect called upon us, however, some important information reached the police, which seemed to overthrow, at least, the chief portion of le commerciel 's argument .
but in proportion to the progress made in a game of chess, is the uncertainty of each ensuing move .
we have had no incidents worth recording .
among these, the one which attracted the most notice, was the idea that marie rogêt still lived that the corpse found in the seine was that of some other unfortunate .
one gentleman thought the whole an x ellent joke .
meantime, our vegetation had perceptibly altered; and we gained faith, from this predicted circumstance, in the foresight of the wise .
it was noticeable, indeed, that, in no one of the multiplied instances in which he had of late crossed my path, had he so crossed it except to frustrate those schemes, or to disturb those actions, which, if fully carried out, might have resulted in bitter mischief .
 ''your opinions, allow me to say, baron von jung, although in the main correct, are, in many nice points, discreditable to yourself and to the university of which you are a member .
i wish you, therefore, to discard from your thoughts the blundering idea of motive, engendered in the brains of the police by that portion of the evidence which speaks of money delivered at the door of the house .
upon considerations similar to these, and still retaining my grasp upon the nose of mr   . w., i accordingly thought proper to model my reply.
the mental features discoursed of as the analytical, are, in themselves, but little susceptible of analysis .
not that the gift of decyphering written characters a gift among the commonalty of that day considered little less cabalistical than the art of inditing could, in strict justice, have been laid to the charge of either disciple of the sea; but there was, to say the truth, a certain twist in the formation of the letters an indescribable lee lurch about the whole which foreboded, in the opinion of both seamen, a long run of dirty weather; and determined them at once, in the allegorical words of legs himself, to  ''pump ship, clew up all sail, and scud before the wind . ''
nor will this overwhelming tendency to do wrong for the wrong 's sake, admit of analysis, or resolution into ulterior elements .
a succession of loud and shrill screams, bursting suddenly from the throat of the chained form, seemed to thrust me violently back .
beheld the singular phenomenon of the sun rising while nearly the whole visible surface of the earth continued to be involved in darkness .
i now considered it high time to die, since fortune had so determined to persecute me, and accordingly made my way to the nearest river .
the admirable roundness of the wrist was well set off by a bracelet which encircled it, and which also was ornamented and clasped by a magnificent aigrette of jewels telling, in words that could not be mistaken, at once of the wealth and fastidious taste of the wearer .
besides, has he not had his full share of the blessings of mortality?
had the deceased any articles of jewelry about her person upon leaving home?
it was not known whether there were any living connexions of madame l  . and her daughter.
the real observer would have uttered an instant ejaculation of surprise however prepared by previous knowledge at the singularity of their position; the fictitious observer has not even mentioned the subject, but speaks of seeing the entire bodies of such creatures, when it is demonstrable that he could have seen only the diameter of their heads it might as well be remarked, in conclusion, that the size, and particularly the powers of the man bats for example, their ability to fly in so rare an atmosphere if, indeed, the moon have any, with most of the other fancies in regard to animal and vegetable existence, are at variance, generally, with all analogical reasoning on these themes; and that analogy here will often amount to conclusive demonstration .
put on your spectacles, and tell me what it is .
wilhelm, count berlifitzing, although loftily descended, was, at the epoch of this narrative, an infirm and doting old man, remarkable for nothing but an inordinate and inveterate personal antipathy to the family of his rival, and so passionate a love of horses, and of hunting, that neither bodily infirmity, great age, nor mental incapacity, prevented his daily participation in the dangers of the chase .
had a thunderbolt fallen at my feet i could not have been more thoroughly astounded astounded only not offended or disgusted in the slightest degree; although an action so bold in any other woman would have been likely to offend or disgust .
 ''it is done '' i cried, with all the enthusiasm that i could muster at the moment .
 ''when you had gone, and when jupiter was fast asleep, i betook myself to a more methodical investigation of the affair .
his suicide, however corroborative of suspicion, were there found to be deceit in the affidavits, is, without such deceit, in no respect an unaccountable circumstance, or one which need cause us to deflect from the line of ordinary analysis .
sardanapalus see diodorus maintained himself seven in nineveh; but to no purpose .
the eyes of the public were upon him; and there was really no sacrifice which he would not be willing to make for the development of the mystery .
  ''the first aim of the writer is to show, from the brevity of the interval between marie's disappearance and the finding of the floating corpse, that this corpse cannot be that of marie .
it was difficult to say what should be done, and much time was spent in deliberation so confused were the ideas of all .
preliminaries being at length arranged, my acquaintance delivered me the respiration; for which having carefully examined it i gave him afterward a receipt .
we passed over innumerable vessels of all kinds, a few of which were endeavoring to beat up, but the most of them lying to .
he touched upon latour and markbrünnen; upon mousseux and chambertin; upon richbourg and st   . george; upon haubrion, leonville, and medoc; upon barac and preignac; upon grâve, upon sauterne, upon lafitte, and upon st. peray.
pundit says atlantic was the ancient adjective .
a word spoken in an ordinary key stood no more chance of being heard than the voice of a fish from the bottom of niagara falls .
the seventh apartment was closely shrouded in black velvet tapestries that hung all over the ceiling and down the walls, falling in heavy folds upon a carpet of the same material and hue .
these we drew back trembling and panting with anxiety .
let any one who, being at heart a lover of nature, is yet chained by duty to the dust and heat of this great metropolis let any such one attempt, even during the weekdays, to slake his thirst for solitude amid the scenes of natural loveliness which immediately surround us .
i then replaced the boards so cleverly, so cunningly, that no human eye not even his could have detected any thing wrong .
they were mistaken, however, for, at the first meeting, monsieur renelle did actually recognize and make claim to his wife .
she returned for it, was seized by the gang, carried out into the stream, gagged, brutally treated, and finally taken to the shore at a point not far from that at which she had originally entered the boat with her parents .
and thus how frequently, in my intense scrutiny of ligeia 's eyes, have i felt approaching the full knowledge of their expression felt it approaching yet not quite be mine and so at length entirely depart and strange, oh strangest mystery of all i found, in the commonest objects of the universe, a circle of analogies to that expression .
i am not suky snobbs .
but a circumstance which has been left out of view by those who contend for such a limit seemed to me, although no positive refutation of their creed, still a point worthy very serious investigation .
what make him dream bout de goole so much, if taint cause he bit by de goole bug?
dreading to find my faint, and, as it seemed, my last hope frustrated, i so far elevated my head as to obtain a distinct view of my breast .
still i consoled myself with the reflection that the tide of ill luck would not run against me forever, and so determined to make a bold push for information at the rout of that bewitching little angel, the graceful mrs  . pirouette.
the creatures are always going off at a tangent into some fantastic employment, or ridiculous speculation, entirely at variance with the  ''fitness of things, '' and having no business whatever to be considered as a business at all .
i grew perfectly sober in an instant .
upon this we gave nine hearty cheers, and dropped in the sea a bottle, enclosing a slip of parchment with a brief account of the principle of the invention .
  'oppodeldoc' should learn to count .
  ''we may imagine her thinking thus 'i am to meet a certain person for the purpose of elopement, or for certain other purposes known only to myself .
 ''fine writer '' said the edinburgh .
the sun had scarcely shone strictly speaking during the day, which nevertheless, had been unpleasantly warm .
it was this deficiency, i considered, while running over in thought the perfect keeping of the character of the premises with the accredited character of the people, and while speculating upon the possible influence which the one, in the long lapse of centuries, might have exercised upon the other it was this deficiency, perhaps, of collateral issue, and the consequent undeviating transmission, from sire to son, of the patrimony with the name, which had, at length, so identified the two as to merge the original title of the estate in the quaint and equivocal appellation of the  ''house of usher '' an appellation which seemed to include, in the minds of the peasantry who used it, both the family and the family mansion .
 ''and can you tell me, '' he demanded,  ''what is the meaning of a nose? ''  ''a nose, my father; '' i replied, greatly softened,  ''has been variously defined by about a thousand different authors . ''
to be sure, the question of identity was readily determined, or should have been; but there were other points to be ascertained .
he raised it to his lips with a leer .
he is at a livery stable in the rue dubourg, just by .
helas am i not ready speak de too moshe?
 ''hush '' said the captain, pointing to the wife and sisters of the deceased .
no such paradises are to be found in reality as have glowed upon the canvass of claude .
seeking in paris the objects i then sought, i felt that the society of such a man would be to me a treasure beyond price; and this feeling i frankly confided to him .
here was a long pause .
the fair face of nature was deformed as with the ravages of some loathsome disease .
it had received three coats of varnish, and i found the cambric muslin to answer all the purposes of silk itself, quite as strong and a good deal less expensive .
it might have been half an hour, perhaps even an hour, for i could take but imperfect note of time before i again cast my eyes upward .
the difficulty of breathing, however, was diminished in a very slight degree, and i found that it would soon be positively necessary to make use of my condenser .
she begged me, but with a sigh, to reconsider my proposal, and termed my love an infatuation a will o ' the wisp a fancy or fantasy of the moment a baseless and unstable creation rather of the imagination than of the heart .
a pair of stumpy bow legs supported his squat, unwieldy figure, while his unusually short and thick arms, with no ordinary fists at their extremities, swung off dangling from his sides like the fins of a sea turtle .
i gazed; while my brain reeled with a multitude of incoherent thoughts .
that of jonas ramus, which is perhaps the most circumstantial of any, cannot impart the faintest conception either of the magnificence, or of the horror of the scene or of the wild bewildering sense of the novel which confounds the beholder .
in this project i succeeded perfectly well at the first effort, and by the time i was fairly eighteen, found myself doing an extensive and profitable business in the tailor 's walking advertisement line .
right at the front door, in a high backed leather bottomed armed chair, with crooked legs and puppy feet like the tables, is seated the old man of the house himself .
his gloom, however which i considered quite natural under the circumstances, seemed entirely unabated .
i but indistinctly recall the fact itself what wonder that i have utterly forgotten the circumstances which originated or attended it?
opposite him, and with her back to the door, was a lady of no whit the less extraordinary character .
could distinguish the words     'sacré' and 'diable .'
  ''where there is much show, '' he says,  ''there is seldom any thing very solid behind '' an observation which so profoundly impresses his landlady's fancy, that she makes a pencil memorandum of it forthwith, in her great family bible, on the broad margin of the proverbs of solomon .
is sure that it was not the voice of an englishman .
upon finishing the perusal of this very extraordinary document, professor rub a dub, it is said, dropped his pipe upon the ground in the extremity of his surprise, and mynheer superbus von underduk having taken off his spectacles, wiped them, and deposited them in his pocket, so far forgot both himself and his dignity, as to turn round three times upon his heel in the quintessence of astonishment and admiration .
after some few days of pain, and many of dreamy delirium replete with ecstasy, the manifestations of which you mistook for pain, while i longed but was impotent to undeceive you after some days there came upon me, as you have said, a breathless and motionless torpor; and this was termed death by those who stood around me  . words are vague things.
nor was i greatly astonished at the nature of his decision .
most philosophers, upon many points of philosophy, are still very unphilosophical .
some of bullethead 's remarks were really so fiery that i have always, since that time, been forced to look upon john smith, who is still alive, in the light of a salamander .
now, how strangely unusual must that voice have really been, about which such testimony as this could have been elicited in whose tones, even, denizens of the five great divisions of europe could recognise nothing familiar you will say that it might have been the voice of an asiatic of an african .
i therefore struggled alone in my endeavors to call back the spirit ill hovering .
thence it had been their custom, time out of mind, to migrate annually to some portion of the earth .
assuming this hypothesis, it would be grossly absurd to compare with the chess player, any similar thing of either modern or ancient days .
  ''of madame l'espanaye no traces were here seen; but an unusual quantity of soot being observed in the fire place, a search was made in the chimney, and horrible to relate the corpse of the daughter, head downward, was dragged therefrom; it having been thus forced up the narrow aperture for a considerable distance .
yet in a second afterward, so frail may that web have been we remember not that we have dreamed .
isn 't that your tobacco lying there?
 ''dupin, '' said i, gravely,  ''this is beyond my comprehension .
do you remember the story they tell of abernethy? ''
but it is important that we find no palpable traces of suggestion .
and because our reason violently deters us from the brink, therefore do we the most impetuously approach it .
this idea i endeavored to confute, kicking and plunging with all my might, and making the most furious contortions for the operations of the surgeon had, in a measure, restored me to the possession of my faculties .
but if the impressions of what i have termed the first stage, are not, at will, recalled, yet, after long interval, do they not come unbidden, while we marvel whence they come?
 ''between lofoden and moskoe, '' he says,  ''the depth of the water is between thirty six and forty fathoms; but on the other side, toward ver vurrgh this depth decreases so as not to afford a convenient passage for a vessel, without the risk of splitting on the rocks, which happens even in the calmest weather .
punctually every sixty minutes was i aroused by my trusty chronometer, when, having emptied the pitcher into the bung hole of the keg, and performed the duties of the condenser, i retired again to bed .
 ''these vaults, '' he said,  ''are extensive . ''
i have before observed that it is by prominences above the plane of the ordinary, that reason feels her way, if at all, in her search for the true, and that the proper question in cases such as this, is not so much     'what has occurred?' as 'what has occurred that has never occurred before?'
similar observations have been made since the automaton has been purchased by maelzel .
there were two particulars, nevertheless, which i thought then, and still think, might fairly be stated as characteristic of the intonation as well adapted to convey some idea of its unearthly peculiarity .
it is related of them that they were acute in many respects, but were oddly afflicted with monomania for building what, in the ancient amriccan, was denominated  ''churches '' a kind of pagoda instituted for the worship of two idols that went by the names of wealth and fashion .
the throat was greatly chafed .
 ''what do you say, '' i suggested modestly,  ''to my kicking him in the first instance, caning him afterwards, and winding up by tweaking his nose? ''
had i been remanded to my dungeon, to await the next sacrifice, which would not take place for many months?
this act, however, did not prevent young ellison from entering into possession, on his twenty first birthday, as the heir of his ancestor seabright, of a fortune of four hundred and fifty millions of dollars .
should he come, it will be necessary to detain him .
this object is situated in the steeple of the house of the town council .
   ''why, a very great deal a very liberal reward i don't like to say how much, precisely; but one thing i will say, that i wouldn't mind giving my individual check for fifty thousand francs to any one who could obtain me that letter .
i cannot better explain my meaning than by the hypothesis that the mesmeric exaltation enables me to perceive a train of ratiocination which, in my abnormal existence, convinces, but which, in full accordance with the mesmeric phenomena, does not extend, except through its effect, into my normal condition .
the principal door was not exactly in the main division, being a little to the east while the two windows were to the west .
it mattered not whether the truth was even demonstrably a truth, for the bullet headed savans of the time regarded only the road by which he had attained it .
there was fricassée from the rocher de cancale .
and thus, as a closer and still closer intimacy admitted me more unreservedly into the recesses of his spirit, the more bitterly did i perceive the futility of all attempt at cheering a mind from which darkness, as if an inherent positive quality, poured forth upon all objects of the moral and physical universe, in one unceasing radiation of gloom .
perhaps the first diddler was adam .
for my own part, i regarded them as gods, and drank in with avidity the rich wit and wisdom which continuously flowed from their august mouths during the process of what is styled  ''lather . ''
she bestowed it upon bossuet .
i have found that a most pleasant and lucrative business, and, really, no trouble at all .
what modern in his senses would ever think of disputing this truism?
thus pain, which in the inorganic life is impossible, is possible in the organic .
why i did this was not at first apparent even to my own perception .
the whole face of the southern declivity was covered with wild shrubbery alone an occasional silver willow or white poplar excepted .
uplifting an axe, and forgetting, in my wrath, the childish dread which had hitherto stayed my hand, i aimed a blow at the animal which, of course, would have proved instantly fatal had it descended as i wished .
this, then, was the very creature of which i was in search .
i judge from this circumstance, as well as from an air of exhaustion in the countenance of my friend, that he had not retired to bed during the whole of the preceding night .
in about twenty minutes our first buoy dipped, and at the touch of the second soon afterwards, we remained stationary as to elevation .
whatever may be said against the abuses of the artificial landscape gardening, a mixture of pure art in a garden scene adds to it a great beauty .
let us now revert to the interior of the room .
one of very remarkable character, and of which the circumstances may be fresh in the memory of some of my readers, occurred, not very long ago, in the neighboring city of baltimore, where it occasioned a painful, intense, and widely extended excitement .
windham and allbreath were his favorite writers, his favorite artist, phiz .
round and round we swept not with any uniform movement but in dizzying swings and jerks, that sent us sometimes only a few hundred yards sometimes nearly the complete circuit of the whirl .
 ''my dear madam, '' said he, evidently struck with my majestic appearance, for i had on the crimson satin, with the green agraffas, and orange colored auriclas .
what fools we two are mr  . rumgudgeon, the matter stands thus: the earth, you know, is twenty four thousand miles in circumference.
i am a methodical man .
disease a fatal disease, fell like the simoon upon her frame; and, even while i gazed upon her, the spirit of change swept over her, pervading her mind, her habits, and her character, and, in a manner the most subtle and terrible, disturbing even the identity of her person alas the destroyer came and went and the victim where is she?
i am by no means naturally nervous, and the very few glasses of lafitte which i had sipped served to embolden me no little, so that i felt nothing of trepidation, but merely uplifted my eyes with a leisurely movement, and looked carefully around the room for the intruder .
the notes, you see, amount to a very considerable sum .
   ''strange you shouldn't know me, though, isn't it?
the convex surface of any segment of a sphere is, to the entire surface of the sphere itself, as the versed sine of the segment to the diameter of the sphere .
in other angles were two other similar boxes, far less reverenced, indeed, but still greatly matters of awe .
i would wish them to seek out for me, in the details i am about to give, some little oasis of fatality amid a wilderness of error .
i rap him up in de paper and stuff piece ob it in he mouff dat was de way  .  ''  ''and you think, then, that your master was really bitten by the beetle, and that the bite made him sick? ''  ''i do n't tink noffin about it i nose it.
i dare say you would like to take a peep at the divinity of the temple .
 ''so well satisfied, however, was mr  . mason of the ultimate success of his invention, that he determined to construct immediately, if possible, a balloon of sufficient capacity to test the question by a voyage of some extent the original design being to cross the british channel, as before, in the nassau balloon.
with your left hand you caressed him and kept him off, while your right, holding the parchment, was permitted to fall listlessly between your knees, and in close proximity to the fire .
it would afford me a chance of bringing to a kind of test the truth of a surmise, which, more than anything else, had influenced me in attempting this ascension .
let us know the full history of   'the officer,' with his present circumstances, and his whereabouts at the precise period of the murder .
my father, thomas bob, esq  ., stood for many years at the summit of his profession, which was that of a merchant barber, in the city of smug.
it was altogether unnecessary to devote seven or eight pages for the purpose of proving what no one in his senses would deny viz: that the wonderful mechanical genius of baron kempelen could invent the necessary means for shutting a door or slipping aside a pannel, with a human agent too at his service in actual contact with the pannel or the door, and the whole operations carried on, as the author of the essay himself shows, and as we shall attempt to show more fully hereafter, entirely out of reach of the observation of the spectators .
as, however, the day broke more distinctly in our approach to the outskirts of the city, my tormentor, arising and adjusting his shirt collar, thanked me in a very friendly manner for my civility .
i folded my arms upon my bosom, and roamed easily to and fro .
your years surpass in some measure my own .
i will content myself with saying, in addition, that my temperament is sanguine, rash, ardent, enthusiastic and that all my life i have been a devoted admirer of the women .
when engaged in meditation about the game he has no time to think of setting in motion the mechanism of the automaton by which are moved the head and the eyes .
it was then ejected by a small valve at the bottom of the car the dense air readily sinking into the thinner atmosphere below .
there must remain with me a certain control over the extent and duration of my repose .
large stocks of firs and pine trees, after being absorbed by the current, rise again broken and torn to such a degree as if bristles grew upon them .
my wanderings amid such scenes have been many, and far searching, and often solitary; and the interest with which i have strayed through many a dim, deep valley, or gazed into the reflected heaven of many a bright lake, has been an interest greatly deepened by the thought that i have strayed and gazed alone .
i could scarcely get rid of it for an instant .
 ''you do not comprehend? '' he said .
a very  ''fine old english gentleman, '' was my grand uncle rumgudgeon, but unlike him of the song, he had his weak points .
you say that  ''but for the necessity of the rudimental life '' there would have been no stars .
in the present posture of affairs, m  . beauvais appears to have the whole matter locked up in his head.
this condition was nearly unaltered for a quarter of an hour .
the darkness, however, was now total; and we could only feel that he was standing in our midst .
if we imagine this to be the case, the difficulty of shifting the partitions vanishes at once, if indeed any such difficulty could be supposed under any circumstances to exist .
the origin of the diddle is referrable to the infancy of the human race .
there i was, full in his view, with blacking and brushes .
 ''we are now, '' he continued, in that particularizing manner which distinguished him  ''we are now close upon the norwegian coast in the sixty eighth degree of latitude in the great province of nordland and in the dreary district of lofoden .
this is about all that i personally know of the now immortal von kempelen; but i have thought that even these few details would have interest for the public .
there is a gush of entrancing melody; there is an oppressive sense of strange sweet odor, there is a dream like intermingling to the eye of tall slender eastern trees bosky shrubberies flocks of golden and crimson birds lily fringed lakes meadows of violets, tulips, poppies, hyacinths, and tuberoses long intertangled lines of silver streamlets and, upspringing confusedly from amid all, a mass of semi gothic, semi saracenic architecture sustaining itself by miracle in mid air, glittering in the red sunlight with a hundred oriels, minarets, and pinnacles; and seeming the phantom handiwork, conjointly, of the sylphs, of the fairies, of the genii and of the gnomes .
as the evening approached, the channel grew more narrow, the banks more and more precipitous; and these latter were clothed in rich, more profuse, and more sombre foliage .
but, even where an edge is presented, two thorns will be necessary, operating, the one in two distinct directions, and the other in one .
having planned all this, i immediately took leave, and went in search of talbot, but, on the way, i could not refrain from stepping into a hotel, for the purpose of inspecting the miniature; and this i did by the powerful aid of the glasses .
the upper part, where it had been doubled and folded, was all mildewed and rotten, and tore on being opened . '
 ''there are various other tones of equal celebrity, but i shall mention only two more the tone transcendental and the tone heterogeneous .
indeed, every appearance warranted me in apprehending a simoom .
 ''at length my eyes, in going the circuit of the room, fell upon a trumpery fillagree card rack of pasteboard, that hung dangling by a dirty blue ribbon, from a little brass knob just beneath the middle of the mantel piece .
this was precisely what had formed the subject of my reflections .
she appeared to be fainting, and no attendants were within call .
he looked down into the low unquiet shrubbery, and up into the tall primeval trees, and up higher at the rustling heaven, and into the crimson moon .
but, leaving this tide out of question, it may be said that very few human bodies will sink at all, even in fresh water, of their own accord .
this party made off immediately, and, after undergoing much suffering, finally arrived, in safety, at ocracoke inlet, on the third day after the wreck .
my reflections, be sure, were of no consolatory kind .
from the circumstances of the observation, it is evident that the cause of this phenomenon is not either in our air, in the tube, in the moon, or in the eye of the spectator, but must be looked for in something an atmosphere?
and i lay close within my covert and observed the actions of the man .
i stood petrified with horror and rage .
the means of egress employed by the murderers .
thus will he inevitably commit himself, at once, to his political destruction .
as night drew on, madame rogêt who was an infirm old lady, seventy years of age, was heard to express a fear  ''that she should never see marie again; '' but this observation attracted little attention at the time .
his downfall, too, will not be more precipitate than awkward .
when he had gone, d came from the window, whither i had followed him immediately upon securing the object in view .
the family is connected, in some way, with maelzel, of automaton chess player memory .
bringing his right arm across his breast he actuates the little machinery necessary to guide the left arm and the fingers of the figure .
let it not be supposed, from what i have just said, that i am detailing any mystery, or penning any romance .
this reflection suggested some meaning some relevancy in the death 's head .
some one did introduce me to the gentleman, i am sure at some public meeting, i know very well held about something of great importance, no doubt at some place or other, i feel convinced, whose name i have unaccountably forgotten .
by the bye, gentlemen, this this is a very well constructed house . ''
by reaching to the distance of two feet and a half we now suppose the shutter open to its whole extent a robber might have taken a firm grasp upon the trellis work .
the only objection which occurred to me was, that the terms  ''contemptible vagabond '' might have been better written  ''odious and contemptible, wretch, villain and vagabond . ''
the throat of the old lady was not merely cut, but the head absolutely severed from the body: the instrument was a mere razor .
the original, for instance, is long, and verbose, is headed  ''a pocket book lost '' and requires the treasure, when found, to be left at no  . tom street.
i had but one consolation in the fact that the imitation, apparently, was noticed by myself alone, and that i had to endure only the knowing and strangely sarcastic smiles of my namesake himself .
let us converse of familiar things, in the old familiar language of the world which has so fearfully perished .
this ballast being discarded, and a clear sunshine evaporating the dew, and at the same time expanding the gas in the silk, the whole will again rapidly ascend .
he was of opinion that the moon was called bendis in thrace, bubastis in egypt, dian in rome, and artemis in greece .
as she departed i turned my eyes in an inquiring manner toward my host .
we were not long after this necessary arrangement in effecting an escape from the dungeons of the sepulchre .
jostling king pest through the open trap, the valiant legs slammed the door down upon him with an oath, and strode towards the centre of the room .
the great wonder was, how wyatt had been entrapped into such a match .
the fact is, that each and every one of the magazines in question, gave mr  .  ''oppodeldoc '' a complete using up, in the  ''monthly notices to correspondents. ''
but little time will be left me to ponder upon my destiny the circles rapidly grow small we are plunging madly within the grasp of the whirlpool and amid a roaring, and bellowing, and thundering of ocean and of tempest, the ship is quivering, oh god and going down .
trepanning was accomplished successfully .
diana smelled the rat .
upon these two words, therefore, i have mainly built my hopes of a full solution of the riddle .
i thus learned the following particulars .
i bade the gentlemen welcome .
the reader will remember that this mark, although large, had been originally very indefinite; but, by slow degrees degrees nearly imperceptible, and which for a long time my reason struggled to reject as fanciful it had, at length, assumed a rigorous distinctness of outline .
in the anatomical structure the artist exhibited the highest skill .
but there seemed to have sprung up in the brain, that of which no words could convey to the merely human intelligence even an indistinct conception .
the police are confounded by the seeming absence of motive not for the murder itself but for the atrocity of the murder .
when i first saw you, mr  . bedloe, at saratoga, it was the miraculous similarity which existed between yourself and the painting which induced me to accost you, to seek your friendship, and to bring about those arrangements which resulted in my becoming your constant companion.
the  ''forty fathoms '' must have reference only to portions of the channel close upon the shore either of moskoe or lofoden .
within its naturally walled enclosure were three extraordinary stones, forming a seat with a back and footstool .
besides, was he not in the secret?
the advances of the malady are, luckily, gradual .
it is, of course, needless to say where was the locality .
perhaps he dreaded my changing my mind, and thought it best to make sure of the prize at once you know how enthusiastic he is on all subjects connected with natural history .
one window being down, a lady was seen on the back seat .
fearful indeed the suspicion but more fearful the doom it may be asserted, without hesitation, that no event is so terribly well adapted to inspire the supremeness of bodily and of mental distress, as is burial before death .
talbot, i learned from my betrothed, had just arrived in town .
during the two wakeful nights in question, and immediately after the disappearance of mrs  . wyatt into the extra state room, i was attracted by certain singular cautious, subdued noises in that of her husband.
this morning we had again some little trouble with the rod of the propeller, which must be entirely remodelled, for fear of serious accident i mean the steel rod not the vanes .
the first action of my life was the taking hold of my nose with both hands .
he descended the hills at a great rate, so that every body had soon a good look at him .
pundit knows, you know; there can be no mistake about it .
the same effect of curvature or of color appeared twice, usually, but not oftener, at any one point of view .
will he inform us, also, how frozen rain can be, at one and the same time, both     'holy light,' whatever that is, and an 'offspring?' which latter term, if we understand any thing about english, is only employed, with propriety, in reference to small babies of about six weeks old .
no traces of land or water could be discovered, and the whole was clouded with variable spots, and belted with tropical and equatorial zones .
these, for what reason i could not imagine, were her favourite and constant study and that in process of time they became my own, should be attributed to the simple but effectual influence of habit and example .
there is nothing he more despises than pretense .
it was clear that the action of the caloric had been imperfect or unequal .
human art could have done no more in the delineation of her superhuman beauty .
he muttered to himself, as did the first seaman whom i saw in the hold, some low peevish syllables of a foreign tongue, and although the speaker was close at my elbow, his voice seemed to reach my ears from the distance of a mile .
on the morning of the fourteenth of june the day in which i first visited the ship, the lady suddenly sickened and died .
 ''talbot, '' i said,  ''you have an opera glass .
he sat erect and rigid in his chair his teeth chattered, and his eyes were starting from their sockets .
this panorama is indeed glorious, and i should rejoice in it but for the excess of its glory .
the supposition of the magnet is also untenable for if a magnet were the agent, any other magnet in the pocket of a spectator would disarrange the entire mechanism .
there seemed a deep sense of life and joy about all; and although no airs blew from out the heavens, yet every thing had motion through the gentle sweepings to and fro of innumerable butterflies, that might have been mistaken for tulips with wings .
the site of the village is in a perfectly circular valley, about a quarter of a mile in circumference, and entirely surrounded by gentle hills, over whose summit the people have never yet ventured to pass .
lofty hills, rising occasionally into mountains, and covered with vegetation in wild luxuriance, still shut in the scene .
some courtesy, nevertheless, is due to the presence of this company, and to yourself, at this moment, as my guest .
accompanying the letter of       'oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, we find sundry lines of most disgusting and unmeaning rant about 'angels and ministers of grace' rant such as no madman short of a nat lee, or an 'oppodeldoc,' could possibly perpetrate .
in the meantime i will make a man of you i will provided always that you follow my counsel .
these had been torn out by the roots .
one thing became more and more evident the longer i gazed: an artist, and one with a most scrupulous eye for form, had superintended all these arrangements .
in a few minutes, the pan having become thoroughly heated, i removed the slip, and, to my inexpressible joy, found it spotted, in several places, with what appeared to be figures arranged in lines .
a general pause ensued, and i began to hope that the farce was at an end .
 ''yes, yes, yes i remember it very well very queer indeed both of you gone just one year .
upon my word, i almost envy you the possession of him; a remarkably fine, and no doubt a very valuable animal .
this exception was found in a compartment wall, not very thick, which stood about the middle of the house, and against which had rested the head of my bed .
i need not describe the easy artifices by which i substituted, in his bed room candle stand, a wax light of my own making for the one which i there found .
in the meantime the wind is still in our poop, and, as we carry a crowd of canvas, the ship is at times lifted bodily from out the sea oh, horror upon horror the ice opens suddenly to the right, and to the left, and we are whirling dizzily, in immense concentric circles, round and round the borders of a gigantic amphitheatre, the summit of whose walls is lost in the darkness and the distance .
i do not wish, however, to trace the course of my miserable profligacy here a profligacy which set at defiance the laws, while it eluded the vigilance of the institution .
that the newspapers which were stuck all over the little balloon were newspapers of holland, and therefore could not have been made in the moon .
we had always dwelled together, beneath a tropical sun, in the valley of the many colored grass .
himself and a companion had captured the ourang outang .
much, however, might be ascertained .
my strict integrity, economy, and rigorous business habits, here again came into play .
surely this is a loud noise even for antioch it argues some commotion of unusual interest . ''
shaking off from my spirit what must have been a dream, i scanned more narrowly the real aspect of the building .
now where is that rudderless boat?
its centre, and of course, its greatest width, came just over the yawning gulf .
his funeral took place on thursday .
he makes much ado before he can get suited with a boarding house .
even where a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at least five or six days ' immersion, it sinks again, if let alone .
i have made no addition to my cabinet since we met .
and yet there was a rascally corporation which asked me to do this very thing this very thing i did not reply to their absurd proposition, of course; but i felt it a duty to go that same night, and lamp black the whole of their palace .
about this wall a dense crowd were collected, and many persons seemed to be examining a particular portion of it with very minute and eager attention .
  ''for god's sake, stay only a few minutes, '' says the finder of the book  ''the true claimant will presently appear . ''
the myrmidons of g were able at once to comprehend how and why such an atrocity might have been committed .
what with mustachios and whiskers, there was none of the rest of his face to be seen .
she recognized her preserver .
i struggled with its weight; i placed it partially in its destined position .
 ''the montresors, '' i replied,  ''were a great and numerous family . ''
how old do you suppose him to be? ''
dark draperies hung upon the walls .
i continued my caresses, and, when i prepared to go home, the animal evinced a disposition to accompany me .
no real danger was at any time apprehended .
his results, brought about by the very soul and essence of method, have, in truth, the whole air of intuition .
i touched it; and the head, with about a quarter of an inch of the shank, came off in my fingers .
my location, to be sure, was an excellent one, being central, and i had capital blacking and brushes .
certainly not but are we prepared to say that there was not the frustrated design?
i can comprehend you thus far that certain operations of what we term nature, or the natural laws, will, under certain conditions, give rise to that which has all the appearance of creation .
 ''mein gott '' said the angel of the odd, apparently much softened at my distress;  ''mein gott, te man is eder ferry dronk or ferry zorry .
cats they caterwauled .
once more let me implore you to return .
i nebber did see sick a deuced bug he kick and he bite ebery ting what cum near him .
and whence came he? and what were his purposes?
yet this superiority even this equality was in truth acknowledged by no one but myself; our associates, by some unaccountable blindness, seemed not even to suspect it .
but, without educated thought, he erred continually by the very intensity of his investigations .
in that portion of the cloth forming the bottom, was likewise, a fourth window, of the same kind, and corresponding with a small aperture in the floor of the car itself .
no one was spoken of as frequenting the house .
he came so close to my person that i felt his hot breath upon my face .
the antagonist as we have before observed is not suffered to play at the board of the automaton, but is seated at some distance from the machine .
now if, after all, i am wrong in my induction from this ribbon, that the frenchman was a sailor belonging to a maltese vessel, still i can have done no harm in saying what i did in the advertisement .
the lady whom i was much astonished to hear addressed as madame joyeuse, after the description of madame joyeuse she had just given blushed up to the eyebrows, and seemed exceedingly abashed at the reproof .
yet but a brief period elapsed, ere a second more violent disorder again threw her upon a bed of suffering; and from this attack her frame, at all times feeble, never altogether recovered .
this state of feeling arose, perhaps, from the madonna like and matronly air of the face; and yet i at once understood that it could not have arisen entirely from this .
there are chemical infusions by which the animal frame can be preserved forever from corruption; the bi chloride of mercury is one .
they the hungarians differed very essentially from their eastern authorities .
the most thrilling peculiarity of this incident, nevertheless, is involved in what mr   . s. himself asserts.
 ''death, '' i said,  ''any death but that of the pit '' fool might i have not known that into the pit it was the object of the burning iron to urge me?
now this globe of the earth turns upon its own axis revolves spins round these twenty four thousand miles of extent, going from west to east, in precisely twenty four hours .
arithmetical or algebraical calculations are, from their very nature, fixed and determinate .
 ''i thought so i knew it hurrah '' vociferated legrand, letting the negro go, and executing a series of curvets and caracols, much to the astonishment of his valet, who, arising from his knees, looked, mutely, from his master to myself, and then from myself to his master .
 ''bosom '' said i .  ''pompey, will you never be ready with that wig?
   ''mille pardons ma'm'selle '' replied monsieur de kock, thus addressed  ''a thousand pardons i had no intention of offending .
there is not, however, the shadow of a clew apparent . ''
from the rock of gibraltar, now dwindled into a dim speck, the dark mediterranean sea, dotted with shining islands as the heaven is dotted with stars, spread itself out to the eastward as far as my vision extended, until its entire mass of waters seemed at length to tumble headlong over the abyss of the horizon, and i found myself listening on tiptoe for the echoes of the mighty cataract .
this would remove the chief obstacle in a journey to the moon .
p . is god, then, material?
a machine is contrived for the purpose, and we have a minute description of it, which is materially helped out by a steel engraving .
 ''at length, quite overcome by exertion, and by a certain oppressive closeness of the atmosphere, i seated myself beneath a tree .
 ''but, having established a single word, we are enabled to establish a vastly important point; that is to say, several commencements and terminations of other words .
this elevation may appear immense, but the estimate upon which it is calculated gave a result in all probability far inferior to the truth .
then there were the great figures upon the dial plate how intelligent how intellectual, they all looked and presently they took to dancing the mazurka, and i think it was the figure v  . who performed the most to my satisfaction.
the truth is, it is impossible to conceive spirit, since it is impossible to imagine what is not .
suddenly there came an icy hand upon my forehead, and an impatient, gibbering voice whispered the word  ''arise '' within my ear .
i knelt at her feet in gratitude and adoration .
my brain reeled as i hearkened entranced, to a melody more than mortal to assumptions and aspirations which mortality had never before known .
his grace bowed, dealt, and arose from the table en presentant le roi .
corroborated the previous evidence in every respect but one .
when, in exhibiting the interior of the box, maelzel has thrown open the door no   . i, and also the door immediately behind it, he holds a lighted candle at the back door as mentioned above and moves the entire machine to and fro with a view of convincing the company that the cupboard no. is entirely filled with machinery.
he dislikes children .
i will not deny that when i called to mind the sinister countenance of the person whom i met upon the staircase, on the day of my arrival at the house, i had no desire to oppose what i regarded as at best but a harmless, and by no means an unnatural, precaution .
i had scarcely completed my work, when a footstep in the hold forced me to make use of it .
in the street, next morning, my great, great, grandmother encountered talbot, an old parisian acquaintance; and the conversation, very naturally turned upon myself .
and i have in mind that the shadows of the trees which fell upon the lake remained not on the surface where they fell, but sunk slowly and steadily down, and commingled with the waves, while from the trunks of the trees other shadows were continually coming out, and taking the place of their brothers thus entombed .
but if this idea was not, even then, altogether adopted, i could at least doubt no longer, when, arising from the bed, tottering, with feeble steps, with closed eyes, and with the manner of one bewildered in a dream, the thing that was enshrouded advanced boldly and palpably into the middle of the apartment .
here tearing down the skeleton which swung over the table, he laid it about him with so much energy and good will, that, as the last glimpses of light died away within the apartment, he succeeded in knocking out the brains of the little gentleman with the gout .
at length, with a wild desperation at heart, i quickly unclosed my eyes .
but, strange to say i was neither astonished nor horror stricken .
i presume everybody has heard of me .
in the meantime, the lunatics had a jolly season of it that you may swear .
the only consideration which restrains us is our conception of its atomic constitution; and here, even, we have to seek aid from our notion of an atom, as something possessing in infinite minuteness, solidity, palpability, weight .
passing into the parlor, i found myself with mr  . landor for this, i afterwards found, was his name.
at length i said,  ''well, but g , what of the purloined letter?
could i resist its glow?
don 't say a syllable about the infernal twoness .
where did you get him? ''
its rightful owner saw, but, of course, dared not call attention to the act, in the presence of the third personage who stood at her elbow .
in this trim we rode safely enough for forty eight hours the ship proving herself an excellent sea boat in many respects, and shipping no water of any consequence .
thither i soon went; the uncalculating vanity of my parents furnishing me with an outfit and annual establishment, which would enable me to indulge at will in the luxury already so dear to my heart, to vie in profuseness of expenditure with the haughtiest heirs of the wealthiest earldoms in great britain .
the other opening was directly at the southern end of the vale .
i recognized it, let me repeat, sometimes in the survey of a rapidly growing vine in the contemplation of a moth, a butterfly, a chrysalis, a stream of running water .
 ''sir, '' he replied, after a pause,  ''donner und blitzen '' this was all that could be desired .
our utmost united endeavors served only to disturb the coffer very slightly in its bed .
made frequent deposits in small sums .
we have crossed the atlantic fairly and easily crossed it in a balloon god be praised who shall say that anything is impossible hereafter? ''
in the act of consigning the corpse to the water, he would unquestionably have noticed his oversight; but then no remedy would have been at hand .
mr  . osborne complained of constriction of the chest but this soon wore off.
 ''true '' observed the baron, dryly, and at that instant a page of the bedchamber came from the palace with a heightened color, and a precipitate step .
from this framework was suspended a wicker basket or car .
it is known, also, that it still remains in his possession . ''
he if his ideas are worth mentioning at all had the effrontery to assert that his master never vaulted into the saddle without an unaccountable and almost imperceptible shudder, and that, upon his return from every long continued and habitual ride, an expression of triumphant malignity distorted every muscle in his countenance .
my original soul seemed, at once, to take its flight from my body and a more than fiendish malevolence, gin nurtured, thrilled every fibre of my frame .
in pronouncing these words, he drew a sharp knife across the guide rope by which i was suspended, and as we then happened to be precisely over my own house, which, during my peregrinations, had been handsomely rebuilt, it so occurred that i tumbled headlong down the ample chimney and alit upon the dining room hearth .
for who, let me ask, ever heard of a balloon manufactured entirely of dirty newspapers?
in her left hand she has a little heavy dutch watch; in her right she wields a ladle for the sauerkraut and pork .
and throwing aside a drapery, he discovered a full length portrait of the marchesa aphrodite .
had i been either of these periodicals i would have spared no pains to have the  ''goosetherumfoodle '' prosecuted .
the balloon was exhausted and secured without trouble; and when the ms  . from which this narrative is compiled was despatched from charleston, the party were still at fort moultrie.
i was not particularly attentive to what you did; but observation has become with me, of late, a species of necessity .
did you observe any thing peculiar about it? ''
 ''has no copy been taken? '' he demanded, surveying it through a microscope .
i never so knew it, nor did you .
on a chair lay a razor, besmeared with blood .
  ''pay for my brandy and water didn't i give you the tobacco for the brandy and water?
these symptoms were more than i had expected, and occasioned me some alarm .
it could not have belonged to either of the deceased .
alas for that accursed time they bore thee o 'er the billow, from love to titled age and crime, and an unholy pillow from me, and from our misty clime, where weeps the silver willow that these lines were written in english a language with which i had not believed their author acquainted afforded me little matter for surprise .
thus far i had succumbed supinely to this imperious domination .
a parasol, gloves, and a pocket handkerchief, were also here found .
you are well aware that chemical preparations exist, and have existed time out of mind, by means of which it is possible to write upon either paper or vellum, so that the characters shall become visible only when subjected to the action of fire .
we are in full view of the low coast of south carolina .
motion in the animal frame had fully ceased .
now, suppose that i sail from this position a thousand miles east .
meantime huge smoking cities arose, innumerable .
is she not hurrying to upbraid me for my haste?
but, indeed, the time had now arrived when the mystery of my wife 's manner oppressed me as a spell .
 ''he is come, the little love '' and, seizing me firmly by both hands, she kissed me thrice upon the nose .
these regular interruptions to my slumber caused me even less discomfort than i had anticipated; and when i finally arose for the day, it was seven o 'clock, and the sun had attained many degrees above the line of my horizon .
corroborated the testimony, and the opinions of m  . dumas.
no secret issues could have escaped their vigilance .
his mouth was large and flexible, and his teeth were more wildly uneven, although sound, than i had ever before seen teeth in a human head .
the surcingle enveloped my limbs and body close in all directions save in the path of the destroying crescent .
by the by, '' she continued,  ''have you any recollection  '' and here i fancied that a blush, even through the gloom of the apartment, became distinctly visible upon her cheek  ''have you any recollection, mon cher ami of this little ocular assistant, which now depends from my neck? ''
i arose with a shining pate, wigless; she in disdain and wrath, half buried in alien hair .
her hair, not as yet more than half loosened for the night from its ball room array, clustered, amid a shower of diamonds, round and round her classical head, in curls like those of the young hyacinth .
is it not really difficult to comprehend upon what principle of interest our forefathers acted?
i have observed that, although the outlines of the figures upon the walls were sufficiently distinct, yet the colors seemed blurred and indefinite .
you are feverish and ''  ''feel my pulse, '' said he .
the paintings the paintings o luxury o love who, gazing on those forbidden beauties, shall have eyes for the dainty devices of the golden frames that besprinkled, like stars, the hyacinth and the porphyry walls?
his frame shook, in a ridiculous manner, with a fit of what tarpaulin called  ''the horrors . ''
it seemed evident that mine was not, at least, the most hideous of fates .
there may be an object in full keeping with the principle suggested an object unattainable by the means ordinarily in possession of mankind, yet which, if attained, would lend a charm to the landscape garden immeasurably surpassing that which a merely human interest could bestow .
my eyes, from the cruel pressure of the machine, were absolutely starting from their sockets .
every ignoramus of a fellow who finds that he hasn  't brains in sufficient quantity to make his way as a walking advertiser, or an eye sore prig, or a salt and batter man, thinks, of course, that he'll answer very well as a dabbler of mud .
i gazed with unquiet eye upon the sarcophagi in the angles of the room, upon the varying figures of the drapery, and upon the writhing of the parti colored fires in the censer overhead .
the larger links of the chain run thus chantilly, orion, dr  . nichols, epicurus, stereotomy, the street stones, the fruiterer. ''
i did not pretend to disguise from my perception the identity of the singular individual who thus perseveringly interfered with my affairs, and harassed me with his insinuated counsel .
our cabinet warehouses are left entirely unattended, and thus afford every facility for a trick of this kind .
in my case it was method not money which made the man: at least all of him that was not made by the tailor whom i served .
we were, in a measure, prepared for it, however, as the weather had been holding out threats for some time .
 ''und dvelf it is '' said all the little old gentlemen, putting up their watches .
it increased my fury, as the beating of a drum stimulates the soldier into courage .
he patronized the bagpipes .
the rope dancers, for example, are inimitable .
every day, in the interim, i had inquired for talbot at his hotel, and every day had been thrown into a spasm of wrath by the everlasting  ''not come home yet '' of his footman .
he betrays eagerly and early that he may not himself be betrayed .
i 'd rudder not go fer trubble dat bug you mus git him for your own self . ''
and then the series of accidents and coincidences these were so very extraordinary .
embracing the huge cylinder, as closely as possible, with his arms and knees, seizing with his hands some projections, and resting his naked toes upon others, jupiter, after one or two narrow escapes from falling, at length wriggled himself into the first great fork, and seemed to consider the whole business as virtually accomplished .
his head was uncovered, and his hair neatly done up in papillotes .
i know g , the prefect of police, and shall have no difficulty in obtaining the necessary permission . ''
the journal here ceases .
we pored together over such works as the ververt et chartreuse of gresset; the belphegor of machiavelli; the heaven and hell of swedenborg; the subterranean voyage of nicholas klimm by holberg; the chiromancy of robert flud, of jean d 'indaginé, and of de la chambre; the journey into the blue distance of tieck; and the city of the sun of campanella .
i was presently relieved, however, by the dropping out of the other eye .
   ''ha ha ha he he he hi hi hi ho ho ho hu hu hu that's good oh that's capital such a wit but all we want just now, you know, uncle, is that you would indicate the time precisely . ''
and though the century which has since elapsed, and whose conclusion brings us thus together once more, tortured our slumbering senses with no impatience of duration, yet, my monos, it was a century still .
rich draperies in every part of the room trembled to the vibration of low, melancholy music, whose origin was not to be discovered .
but ah ah the first contribution the first, i say, it is never the magazine custom to pay for you comprehend, eh?
when, a short time previous to the commencement of the game, the automaton is wound up by the exhibiter as usual, an ear in any degree accustomed to the sounds produced in winding up a system of machinery, will not fail to discover, instantaneously, that the axis turned by the key in the box of the chess player, cannot possibly be connected with either a weight, a spring, or any system of machinery whatever .
dreadful creatures, those indians do turn out your toes i really am ashamed of you man of great courage, poor fellow but this is a wonderful age for invention o dear me, i   'm out of breath quite a desperado prodigies of valor never heard can't believe it i shall have to sit down and enlighten you smith why, he's the man ''  ''man fred, i tell you '' here bawled out miss bas bleu, as i led mrs  . pirouette to a seat.
it was during one of these reveries or pauses of apparent abstraction, that, in turning over a page of the poet and scholar politian 's beautiful tragedy  ''the orfeo, '' the first native italian tragedy, which lay near me upon an ottoman, i discovered a passage underlined in pencil .
the original beauty is never so great as that which may be introduced .
 ''and you have not seen it? '' he said abruptly, after having stared about him for some moments in silence  ''you have not then seen it?
at first he stared at me as if he found it impossible to comprehend the witticism of my remark; but as its point seemed slowly to make its way into his brain, his eyes, in the same proportion, seemed protruding from their sockets .
these are important questions utterly untouched by the evidence; and there are others of equal moment, which have met with no attention .
charmion so henceforward will you always be called .
this condition of things could not have long existed .
by way of amusement, i felt my way among the numerous coffins ranged in order around .
the results attained by them are not unfrequently surprising, but, for the most part, are brought about by simple diligence and activity .
it is mr    . thingum bob said so, and mr. thingum bob wrote this, and mr. thingum bob did that.
in passing my hand through the valve, with a cup of water for the old puss, the sleeves of my shirt became entangled in the loop which sustained the basket, and thus, in a moment, loosened it from the bottom .
diana was not more than five inches in height, but her head was somewhat bigger than her body, and her tail being cut off exceedingly close, gave an air of injured innocence to the interesting animal which rendered her a favorite with all .
at its third repetition, his whole frame was agitated by a very slight shivering; the eyelids unclosed themselves so far as to display a white line of the ball; the lips moved sluggishly, and from between them, in a barely audible whisper, issued the words:  ''yes; asleep now .
he stretched forth to me his hand, and unfortunately in so doing was forced to abandon his firm hold upon the overcoat .
but what mainly disturbed me was the idea that had perceptibly descended .
in the fifth or sixth he succeeded very partially, and after long continued effort .
but it soon occurred to me that the atmosphere was now far too rare to sustain even the feathers; that they actually fell, as they appeared to do, with great rapidity; and that i had been surprised by the united velocities of their descent and my own elevation .
pompey alone remained behind .
to promenade, as usual and customer brought home    ... july .
it is a fair day for the sons of earth and life ah, more fair for the daughters of heaven and death '' i kissed her forehead, and she continued:  ''i am dying, yet shall i live . ''
the ponderous oppression was in a great measure relieved; and, issuing from the flame of each lamp, for there were many, there flowed unbrokenly into my ears a strain of melodious monotone .
i truly think that no person at the university, with the exception of myself, ever suspected him to be capable of a joke, verbal or practical: the old bull dog at the garden gate would sooner have been accused, the ghost of heraclitus, or the wig of the emeritus professor of theology .
from the remotest period of antiquity to which the archives have reference, the hours have been regularly struck by the big bell .
it is the person of ligeia .
you are rich, respected, admired, beloved; you are happy, as once i was .
report had spoken of his possessions in terms which i had even ventured to call terms of ridiculous exaggeration .
in the brief existence of ellison i fancy that i have seen refuted the dogma, that in man 's very nature lies some hidden principle, the antagonist of bliss .
the invalid was suffering with acute pain in the region of the heart, and breathed with great difficulty, having all the ordinary symptoms of asthma .
i will have none of their rabbit au chat and, for the matter of that, none of their cat au rabbit either .
i repeat it is exceedingly hard to comprehend how the articles could have remained in this thicket undiscovered, for a longer period than one or two days; and that thus there is good ground for suspicion, in spite of the dogmatic ignorance of le soleil, that they were, at a comparatively late date, deposited where found .
ye gods that sigh it sunk into my heart .
in this matter, i act as a partisan of the lady concerned .
one of these small apartments was occupied by wilson .
i then finally made up my mind .
they alone would have amply established her identity .
she went even so far as to accuse me, laughingly, of rashness of imprudence .
the gas to be formed from these latter materials is a gas never yet generated by any other person than myself or at least never applied to any similar purpose .
just before sunset i scrambled my way through the evergreens to the hut of my friend, whom i had not visited for several weeks my residence being, at that time, in charleston, a distance of nine miles from the island, while the facilities of passage and re passage were very far behind those of the present day .
as for  ''oppodeldoc, '' whoever he was, i had by this time lost all patience with the fellow, and sympathized with him no longer .
postponing, therefore, for the present, my suicidal design, i just slipped my nether extremities into the sleeves of my coat, and betook myself to a pursuit of the felon with all the nimbleness which the case required and its circumstances would admit .
looking down from this pinnacle upon the howling phlegethon below, i could not help smiling at the simplicity with which the honest jonas ramus records, as a matter difficult of belief, the anecdotes of the whales and the bears; for it appeared to me, in fact, a self evident thing, that the largest ship of the line in existence, coming within the influence of that deadly attraction, could resist it as little as a feather the hurricane, and must disappear bodily and at once .
 ''to be sure i am, sir  . ''  ''i shall be sorry to part with him, '' said dupin.
the sea appeared unruffled as a mirror, although, by means of the spy glass, i could perceive it to be in a state of violent agitation .
they are each two feet in height .
long long i read and devoutly, devotedly i gazed .
on the route, quite accidentally, he is met by the purchaser, who exclaims:  ''ah this is my bundle, i see i thought you had been home with it, long ago .
he looks to number one .
in an instant he had reached the extremity of the niche, and finding his progress arrested by the rock, stood stupidly bewildered .
they were, i must believe, far larger than the ordinary eyes of our own race .
i have already spoken of his abstract manner at such times .
but a frenchwoman is seldom direct, and has always, by way of answer to an embarrassing query, some little practical reply of her own .
the boundary line of his dominions was never clearly defined; but his principal park embraced a circuit of fifty miles .
we landed, in fine, more dead than alive, after four days of intense distress, upon the beach opposite roanoke island .
moreover, it is inserted in at least five or six of the daily papers of the day, while in point of time, it makes its appearance only a few hours after the original .
truth is not always in a well .
for arms there dangled from the upper portion of the carcass two tolerably long bottles, with the necks outward for hands .
yet i could not have been deceived .
but do they not rather demonstrate the absence of a gang?
if i went to sleep as i proposed, how could the atmosphere in the chamber be regenerated in the interim?
moreover, although it was stated by l  'etoile, that the corpse was re interred at the public expense that an advantageous offer of private sculpture was absolutely declined by the family and that no member of the family attended the ceremonial: although, i say, all this was asserted by l'etoile in furtherance of the impression it designed to convey yet all this was satisfactorily disproved .
 ''claws enuff, massa, and mouth too .
in the first place he opens the door no     . i. leaving this open, he goes round to the rear of the box, and opens a door precisely at the back of door no. i. to this back door he holds a lighted candle.
in proper season, of course, they would return home; and the author, happening, one day, to require their services for a short voyage, is unexpectedly carried straight tip, and in a very brief period arrives at the satellite .
in brewster 's letters on natural magic, we have an account of the most remarkable .
the analytical power should not be confounded with ample ingenuity; for while the analyst is necessarily ingenious, the ingenious man is often remarkably incapable of analysis .
i surveyed their characteristics .
      '''but,' says l'etoile, 'if the body had been kept in its mangled state on shore until tuesday night, some trace would be found on shore of the murderers .'
i scrutinized the formation of the chin and here, too, i found the gentleness of breadth, the softness and the majesty, the fullness and the spirituality, of the greek the contour which the god apollo revealed but in a dream, to cleomenes, the son of the athenian .
they appeared to me white whiter than the sheet upon which i trace these words and thin even to grotesqueness; thin with the intensity of their expression of firmness of immoveable resolution of stern contempt of human torture .
the duchess of bless my soul was sitting for her portrait; the marquis of so and so was holding the duchess ' poodle; the earl of this and that was flirting with her salts; and his royal highness of touch me not was leaning upon the back of her chair .
before any one of us could recover from the extreme astonishment into which this rudeness had thrown all, we heard the voice of the intruder .
i have said that i minutely remember the details of the chamber yet i am sadly forgetful on topics of deep moment and here there was no system, no keeping, in the fantastic display, to take hold upon the memory .
write now '' and i wrote as he dictated .
this interference often took the ungracious character of advice; advice not openly given, but hinted or insinuated .
the one midway is moskoe .
i was too much exhausted to reflect upon this circumstance, but ate and drank with avidity .
what avails the vigilance against the destiny of man?
she hung down her head, and said not a syllable in reply .
nothing would have tempted me to within half a dozen yards of its brink .
it first rolled down the side of the steeple, then lodge, for a few seconds, in the gutter, and then made its way, with a plunge, into the middle of the street .
it must have been by an accident, in its strictest sense, that these garters of marie needed the tightening described .
many projects entered my mind .
in this latter respect i was forced to take talbot 's advice; for he remained obstinately deaf to every further question or suggestion, and occupied himself exclusively for the rest of the evening with what was transacting upon the stage .
at all this i felt mortified, and so called upon my father .
being now assured of her absence, i returned with a palpitating heart to the scene of my disaster .
in a fearfully brief period the patient died, when it appeared that in the jar containing the leeches, had been introduced, by accident, one of the venomous vermicular sangsues which are now and then found in the neighboring ponds .
and every morning, when the day broke, i went boldly into the chamber, and spoke courageously to him, calling him by name in a hearty tone, and inquiring how he has passed the night .
 ''he was a great fool, beyond doubt, '' interposed some one,  ''but not to be compared with a certain individual whom we all know, with the exception of this strange gentleman .
i beg your pardon, sir, '' here he addresses a gentleman on shore,  ''but you have the air of an honest man .
i examined all my apparatus, however, with great attention, and could discover nothing out of order .
in this manner the chase continued for a long time .
 ''the stupor and surprise produced in my mind by this extraordinary change in the posture of affairs was perhaps, after all, that part of the adventure least susceptible of explanation .
somewhat amazed at all this, i made my retreat to the baron .
i hesitated to ride, or to walk, or to indulge in any exercise that would carry me from home .
nor can i better define that peculiarity of spirit which seemed to place him so essentially apart from all other human beings, than by calling it a habit of intense and continual thought, pervading even his most trivial actions intruding upon his moments of dalliance and interweaving itself with his very flashes of merriment like adders which writhe from out the eyes of the grinning masks in the cornices around the temples of persepolis .
i have not been quite well for some days past, and poor old jup annoys me, almost beyond endurance, by his well meant attentions would you believe it?
it is not improbable that the relatives of legrand, conceiving him to be somewhat unsettled in intellect, had contrived to instil this obstinacy into jupiter, with a view to the supervision and guardianship of the wanderer .
 ''extraordinary murders .
when there is no angle in other words, when the rope hangs perpendicularly, the whole apparatus is stationary; but the larger the angle, that is to say, the farther the balloon precedes the end of the rope, the greater the velocity; and the converse .
yet experience has shown, and a true philosophy will always show, that a vast, perhaps the larger portion of truth, arises from the seemingly irrelevant .
in the mean time the investigation proceeded with vigor, if not always with judgment, and numerous individuals were examined to no purpose; while, owing to the continual absence of all clue to the mystery, the popular excitement greatly increased .
with little difficulty i made my way unperceived to the main hatchway, which was partially open, and soon found an opportunity of secreting myself in the hold .
i resolved at once to become a great man and to commence by becoming a great poet .
that it was the scene, i may or i may not believe but there was excellent reason for doubt .
a very mean diddle is this .
it now occurred to me that the bandage, or surcingle, which enveloped me, was unique .
on page , pamphlet edition, speaking of  ''a hairy veil '' over the eyes of a species of bison, the author says:  ''it immediately occurred to the acute mind of dr  . herschel that this was a providential contrivance to protect the eyes of the animal from the great extremes of light and darkness to which all the inhabitants of our side of the moon are periodically subjected. ''
i can choose my current, and should i find all currents against me, i can make very tolerable headway with the propeller .
jupiter, at a signal from his master, began to gather up his tools .
i had no alternative but to conclude him stricken with lunacy, and i became seriously anxious about getting him home .
such an occurrence, of course, attracted universal attention, and every little old gentleman who sat in a leather bottomed arm chair turned one of his eyes with a stare of dismay upon the phenomenon, still keeping the other upon the clock in the steeple .
to those who have cherished an affection for a faithful and sagacious dog, i need hardly be at the trouble of explaining the nature or the intensity of the gratification thus derivable .
having deposited our mournful burden upon tressels within this region of horror, we partially turned aside the yet unscrewed lid of the coffin, and looked upon the face of the tenant .
these are the words of the encyclopædia britannica .
in the confusion attending my fall, i did not immediately apprehend a somewhat startling circumstance, which yet, in a few seconds afterward, and while i still lay prostrate, arrested my attention .
it was his practice to take a very large dose of it immediately after breakfast each morning or, rather, immediately after a cup of strong coffee, for he ate nothing in the forenoon and then set forth alone, or attended only by a dog, upon a long ramble among the chain of wild and dreary hills that lie westward and southward of charlottesville, and are there dignified by the title of the ragged mountains .
it hung upon our limbs upon the household furniture upon the goblets from which we drank; and all things were depressed, and borne down thereby all things save only the flames of the seven lamps which illumined our revel .
she flapped her wings with prodigious effect so so and, as for her crow, it was delicious cock a doodle doo cock a doodle doo cock a doodle de doo dooo do o o o o o o ''  ''madame joyeuse, i will thank you to behave yourself '' here interrupted our host, very angrily .
but you should have seen me .
this would have sounded more gracefully, i think .
i paced the floor to and fro with heavy strides, as if excited to fury by the observations of the men but the noise steadily increased .
it must have been a peculiarity of color, of quantity, of length, or of situation .
during its perusal she was suddenly interrupted by the entrance of the other exalted personage from whom especially it was her wish to conceal it .
the conclusion was plain, and again narrowed in the field of my investigations .
this act did not prevent young ellison, upon his twenty first birth day, from entering into possession, as the heir of his ancestor, seabright, of a fortune of four hundred and fifty millions of dollars .
we could inflict no punishment so severe, and we would inflict it, but for the boredom which we should cause our readers in so doing .
when i said these words, i of course expected some lively sally from bedloe in reply, but, to my astonishment, he hesitated, trembled, became fearfully pallid, and remained silent .
i wish to describe, but am disheartened by the difficulty of description, and hesitate between detail and generality .
i did so; but the difficulty was even more obvious than before .
in this low and small room there hung no lamp; and now no light at all was admitted, save that of the exceedingly feeble dawn which made its way through the semi circular window .
i arose from my seat, and throwing open one of the doors of the library, saw standing out in the ante chamber a servant maiden, all in tears, who told me that berenice was no more she had been seized with epilepsy in the early morning, and now, at the closing in of the night, the grave was ready for its tenant, and all the preparations for the burial were completed .
and the man trembled in the solitude; but the night waned, and he sat upon the rock .
 ''scoundrel '' i said, in a voice husky with rage, while every syllable i uttered seemed as new fuel to my fury,  ''scoundrel impostor accursed villain you shall not you shall not dog me unto death follow me, or i stab you where you stand '' and i broke my way from the ball room into a small ante chamber adjoining dragging him unresistingly with me as i went .
his possessions had been always ample; but on the attainment of his majority, it was discovered that one of those extraordinary freaks of fate had been played in his behalf which startle the whole social world amid which they occur, and seldom fail radically to alter the moral constitution of those who are their objects .
 ''i do, '' said i, blowing it well .
in looking from the summit of a mountain we cannot help feeling abroad in the world .
between the chief building and western wing arose a very tall and rather slender square chimney of hard dutch bricks, alternately black and red: a slight cornice of projecting bricks at the top .
there seemed very little taste, however, in the arrangements; and my eyes, accustomed to quiet lights, were sadly offended by the prodigious glare of a multitude of wax candles, which, in silver candelabra, were deposited upon the table, and all about the room, wherever it was possible to find a place .
yet there is a necessity for disposing of the corpse .
for your life you could not have found a fault with its wonderful proportion .
i i could not thus it is said the prussian isis has, for some persons, a sweet and very powerful perfume, while to others it is perfectly scentless .
i was deeply interested in the little family history which he detailed to me with all that candor which a frenchman indulges whenever mere self is his theme .
to muse for long unwearied hours, with my attention riveted to some frivolous device on the margin, or in the typography of a book; to become absorbed, for the better part of a summer 's day, in a quaint shadow falling aslant upon the tapestry or upon the floor; to lose myself, for an entire night, in watching the steady flame of a lamp, or the embers of a fire; to dream away whole days over the perfume of a flower; to repeat, monotonously, some common word, until the sound, by dint of frequent repetition, ceased to convey any idea whatever to the mind; to lose all sense of motion or physical existence, by means of absolute bodily quiescence long and obstinately persevered in: such were a few of the most common and least pernicious vagaries induced by a condition of the mental faculties, not, indeed, altogether unparalleled, but certainly bidding defiance to anything like analysis or explanation .
never before were two houses so illustrious, mutually embittered by hostility so deadly .
to the right and left, in the middle of each wall, a tall and narrow gothic window looked out upon a closed corridor which pursued the windings of the suite .
it was exquisitely lovely this, of course, my heart had told me before, even had not talbot fully satisfied me upon the point but still the unintelligible something disturbed me .
continued last night our astronomical amusements .
i was evidently approaching it, and with great rapidity .
without was the  ''red death . ''
where then was my guardian angel?
  ''i don't mean that you should be at all this trouble for nothing, sir, '' said the man .
a beautiful woman still; don 't you think so, froissart?
he takes a puff and a look, and then a look and a puff .
one tempestuous night, metzengerstein, awaking from a heavy slumber, descended like a maniac from his chamber, and, mounting in hot haste, bounded away into the mazes of the forest .
you pelief, ten, in te possibilty of te odd? ''
  ''at five o'clock, p   .m., being engaged in regenerating the atmosphere within the chamber, i took that opportunity of observing the cat and kittens through the valve.
  ''it is clearly inferred, '' replied the prefect,  ''from the nature of the document, and from the non appearance of certain results which would at once arise from its passing out of the robber's possession; that is to say, from his employing it as he must design in the end to employ it . ''
to day i found an enormous increase in the moon 's apparent bulk and the evidently accelerated velocity of my descent began to fill me with alarm .
our progress downward, at each revolution, was slow, but very perceptible .
not long after this, we were looking over an evening edition of the  ''gazette des tribunaux, '' when the following paragraphs arrested our attention .
this room was crowded with old beds, boxes, and so forth .
she had just awakened from an unquiet slumber, and i had been watching, with feelings half of anxiety, half of vague terror, the workings of her emaciated countenance .
 ''in that case, '' replied dupin, opening a drawer, and producing a check book,  ''you may as well fill me up a check for the amount mentioned .
every preparation likely to embarrass us, having been made over night, we commenced the inflation this morning at daybreak; but owing to a thick fog, which encumbered the folds of the silk and rendered it unmanageable, we did not get through before nearly eleven o 'clock .
this circumstance first aroused in us the suspicion that the more remote portion of the machinery was so arranged as to be easily slipped, en masse, from its position when occasion should require it .
 ''i drink, '' he said,  ''to the buried that repose around us  . ''  ''and i to your long life. ''
we soon discovered that we were the sole survivors of the accident .
there is something in the unselfish and self sacrificing love of a brute, which goes directly to the heart of him who has had frequent occasion to test the paltry friendship and gossamer fidelity of mere man .
this could only be the case were her walks of the same unvarying, methodical character, and within the same species of limited region as are his own .
not thus he appeared assuredly not thus in the vivacity of his waking hours .
here my friend, about whose madness i now saw, or fancied that i saw, certain indications of method, removed the peg which marked the spot where the beetle fell, to a spot about three inches to the westward of its former position .
and it is to be regarded as a very peculiar coincidence as one of those positively remarkable coincidences which set a man to serious thinking that just such a total revolution of opinion just such entire bouleversement, as we say in french, just such thorough topsiturviness, if i may be permitted to employ a rather forcible term of the choctaws, as happened, pro and con, between myself on the one part, and the  ''goosetherumfoodle '' on the other, did actually again happen, in a brief period afterwards, and with precisely similar circumstances, in the case of myself and the  ''rowdy dow, '' and in the case of myself and the  ''humdrum . ''
the only wonder with us must be, how it happened that mr  . mill conceived it necessary even to hint at any thing so obvious.
in company with these gentlemen, my cousin and i, preconcertedly paid uncle rumgudgeon a visit on the afternoon of sunday, october the tenth, just three weeks after the memorable decision which had so cruelly defeated our hopes .
upon the whole you judge wisely; the trade of editor is best: and if you can be a poet at the same time, as most of the editors are, by the by, why you will kill two birds with one stone .
in landscape alone is the principle of the critic true; and, having felt its truth here, it is but the headlong spirit of generalization which has induced him to pronounce it true throughout all the domains of art .
do you remember our flight on the railroad across the kanadaw continent?
i could only account for all this by extending my theory, and supposing that the highly rarefied atmosphere around might perhaps not be, as i had taken for granted, chemically insufficient for the purposes of life, and that a person born in such a medium might, possibly, be unaware of any inconvenience attending its inhalation, while, upon removal to the denser strata near the earth, he might endure tortures of a similar nature to those i had so lately experienced .
but this nobody sees but himself .
 ''who am i? ah, true i am baal zebub, prince of the fly .
by this accident we lost three men overboard with the caboose, and nearly the whole of the larboard bulwarks .
terrified at the sight of so dangerous a weapon in the possession of an animal so ferocious, and so well able to use it, the man, for some moments, was at a loss what to do .
a scene of the most terrible confusion ensued .
these do not usually inquire with much strictness into the affairs of their juniors .
it is unnecessary to state the exact character of those disquisitions which, growing out of the volumes i have mentioned, formed, for so long a time, almost the sole conversation of morella and myself .
a dead weight hung upon us .
one part was the hem of the frock and it had been mended .
length of years, and subsequent reflection, have enabled me to trace, indeed, some remote connection between this passage in the english moralist and a portion of the character of ligeia .
now, at first glance, this fact strongly militates against my suggestion; but let us reflect .
deprived of ordinary resources, the analyst throws himself into the spirit of his opponent, identifies himself therewith, and not unfrequently sees thus, at a glance, the sole methods sometime indeed absurdly simple ones by which he may seduce into error or hurry into miscalculation .
he bowed awkwardly, and bade us  ''good evening, '' in french accents, which, although somewhat neufchatelish, were still sufficiently indicative of a parisian origin .
see, also, blunderbuzzard  ''de derivationibus, '' pp   . to , folio, gothic edit., red and black character, catch word and no cypher; wherein consult, also, marginal notes in the autograph of stuffundpuff, with the sub commentaries of gruntundguzzell.
  ''isidore muset, gendarme, deposes that he was called to the house about three o'clock in the morning, and found some twenty or thirty persons at the gateway, endeavoring to gain admittance .
i must not only punish, but punish with impunity .
amused me, i say, for my sensations now bordered upon perfect happiness, and the most trifling circumstances afforded me pleasure .
 ''i have never given the matter a thought, '' i said .
i was forced to repeat this question before the sleep waker fully comprehended my meaning .
he was evidently influenced with the first lateral stroke of my hand across his forehead; but although i exerted all my powers, no further perceptible effect was induced until some minutes after ten o 'clock, when doctors d and f called, according to appointment .
these opinions, it will be seen, were embodied in critical notices of the number of the  ''lollipop '' containing my poem, and are perfectly satisfactory, conclusive and clear with the exception, perhaps, of the hieroglyphical marks,  ''sep .
i felt that thus only should i look upon it such was the character of phantasm which it wore .
of one 's very remote ancestors it is superfluous to say much .
no one who knows me will doubt that the duty thus self imposed will be executed to the best of my ability, with all that rigid impartiality, all that cautious examination into facts, and diligent collation of authorities, which should ever distinguish him who aspires to the title of historian .
once or twice, upon my venturing to express my total incredulity in respect to his pretensions, he grew very angry indeed, so that at length i considered it the wiser policy to say nothing at all, and let him have his own way .
this island is a very singular one .
 ''gentlemen, '' he said, in a low, distinct, and never to be forgotten whisper which thrilled to the very marrow of my bones,  ''gentlemen, i make no apology for this behaviour, because in thus behaving, i am but fulfilling a duty .
there was something in the tone of this note which gave me great uneasiness .
it was about six feet in length by two and a half in breadth; i observed it attentively, and like to be precise .
 ''my dear miss zenobia, '' he said, while the tears stood in his eyes,  ''is there anything else i can do to promote the success of your laudable undertaking?
at the end of this period, however, the gale had freshened into a hurricane, and our after sail split into ribbons, bringing us so much in the trough of the water that we shipped several prodigious seas, one immediately after the other .
to morrow will be sunday .
application should be made between the hours of ten and eleven a       . m., and four and five p. m., of messrs.  ''bogs, hogs logs, frogs co.,  ''no.
every one has seen the mediterranean; but let me tell you, there are few who have had a peep at antioch .
the possible moves being not only manifold but involute, the chances of such oversights are multiplied; and in nine cases out of ten it is the more concentrative rather than the more acute player who conquers .
for many miles on either side of the river 's oozy bed is a pale desert of gigantic water lilies .
your mind wavers, and its agitation will find relief in the exercise of simple memories .
we called it the  ''river of silence ''; for there seemed to be a hushing influence in its flow .
they blind, deafen, and strangle you, and take away all power of action or reflection .
i need not remind the reader that, from the long and weird catalogue of human miseries, i might have selected many individual instances more replete with essential suffering than any of these vast generalities of disaster .
unaccountably we remain .
but i had an object apart from these considerations .
mr  . ainsworth has not attempted to account for this phenomenon, which, however, is quite susceptible of explanation.
to conceive the horror of my sensations is, i presume, utterly impossible; yet a curiosity to penetrate the mysteries of these awful regions, predominates even over my despair, and will reconcile me to the most hideous aspect of death .
in his wisdom is no stamen .
it seems to me unquestionable that beauvais was a suitor of marie 's; that she coquetted with him; and that he was ambitious of being thought to enjoy her fullest intimacy and confidence .
as for an introduction, i was obliged to abandon all hope of it until such time as talbot should think proper to return from the country .
and the hippopotami heard my call, and came, with the behemoth, unto the foot of the rock, and roared loudly and fearfully beneath the moon .
his mask and cloak lay, where he had thrown them, upon the floor .
i knew her not or knew her no longer as berenice .
with opinions such as these my young friend, too, was fully imbued, and thus it is worthy of observation that the uninterrupted enjoyment which distinguished his life was, in great measure, the result of preconcert .
immediately upon its arrival we made sail, and in a short time were safely over the bar and standing out to sea .
and the shadow rested upon the brazen doorway, and under the arch of the entablature of the door, and moved not, nor spoke any word, but there became stationary and remained .
this reply i considered a pointed and positive insult, and so left the house at once in high dudgeon, with a firm resolve to call my friend, mr  . sinivate, to a speedy account for his ungentlemanly conduct and ill breeding.
the speaker is aware that he displeases; he has every intention to please, he is usually curt, precise, and clear, the most laconic and luminous language is struggling for utterance upon his tongue, it is only with difficulty that he restrains himself from giving it flow; he dreads and deprecates the anger of him whom he addresses; yet, the thought strikes him, that by certain involutions and parentheses this anger may be engendered .
 ''here then is a card, my life .
retracing our steps, we came again to the front of the dwelling, rang, and, having shown our credentials, were admitted by the agents in charge .
the most important crisis of our life calls, trumpet tongued, for immediate energy and action .
why, not general john a   . b. c.? savage affair that with the kickapo o o os, wasn 't it?
i resolved to quiz him well, now and hereafter .
by   'sweeps' were meant cylindrical sweeping brushes, such as are employed by those who clean chimneys .
to morrow arrives, and with it a more impatient anxiety to do our duty, but with this very increase of anxiety arrives, also, a nameless, a positively fearful, because unfathomable, craving for delay .
what i saw what i heard what i felt what i thought had about it nothing of the unmistakable idiosyncrasy of the dream .
i consented of course to make this experiment .
but my chief anxiety was concerning the balloon, which, in spite of the varnish with which it was defended, began to grow rather heavy with the moisture; the powder also was liable to damage .
a green drapery conceals the back of the turk, and falls partially over the front of both shoulders .
this power of retrogradation in its absolute fulness and perfection this faculty of referring at all epochs, all effects to all causes is of course the prerogative of the deity alone but in every variety of degree, short of the absolute perfection, is the power itself exercised by the whole host of the angelic intelligences .
on its ermined floor reposes a single feathery paddle of satin wood; but no oarsmen or attendant is to be seen .
the epigram cannot be gainsayed; but the necessity is a thing that does not exist .
and again, and again, in secret communion with my own spirit, would i demand the questions  ''who is he? whence came he? and what are his objects? ''
it will be thought that i should have entered more minutely, into the details of an occurrence by which and this is very true much new light might be thrown upon a highly interesting branch of physical philosophy .
but you now speak of  ''mind '' and  ''matter '' as do the metaphysicians .
the impression was given with an accuracy truly marvellous .
i shall ever bear about me a memory of the many solemn hours i thus spent alone with the master of the house of usher .
were all the jewels of golconda awaiting me upon my solution of this enigma, i am quite sure that i should be unable to earn them . ''
in a very few moments i again looked fixedly at the painting .
finally, all men saw that astronomical knowledge lied not, and they awaited the comet .
  ''he he he '' said the fellow,  ''hu hu hu dat you can't do . ''
perhaps you might do better .
all this time the sleeper waker remained exactly as i have last described him .
only at the twelfth was the triumph complete .
taking now a spade himself, and giving one to jupiter and one to me, legrand begged us to set about digging as quickly as possible .
i have hitherto managed as well as i could without either .
i knew it could make no difference whether either of us held on at all; so i let him have the bolt, and went astern to the cask .
his complexion was absolutely bloodless .
it has been his terrible lot not to walk but to waddle to pass through life not like a human being, but like an elephant not like a man, but like a rhinoceros .
it could not have been less than five hundred miles, and was probably much more .
upon the whole, i was sadly vexed and puzzled, but, at length, i concluded to make a virtue of necessity to dig with a good will, and thus the sooner to convince the visionary, by ocular demonstration, of the fallacy of the opinions he entertained .
for my own part, i should hold it not only as possible, but as very far more than probable, that marie might have proceeded, at any given period, by any one of the many routes between her own residence and that of her aunt, without meeting a single individual whom she knew, or by whom she was known .
stalking across the room i cast a glance of contempt at the belligerents, and throwing open the sash to their extreme horror and disappointment, precipitated myself, very dexterously, from the window .
he was still sitting up in the bed listening; just as i have done, night after night, hearkening to the death watches in the wall .
i told them my story they did not believe it .
it was a piece of  ''composition, '' in which the most fastidiously critical taste could scarcely have suggested an emendation .
the worst of this profession was, that i had to walk so much and so fast; and so frequently to vary my route .
the whole house was blazing .
  ''having thus before us the whole philosophy of this subject, we can easily test by it the assertions of l'etoile .
he means to anticipate what he imagines would be an objection to his theory viz: that the body was kept on shore two days, suffering rapid decomposition more rapid than if immersed in water .
but the grooms there disclaim any title to the creature; which is strange, since he bears evident marks of having made a narrow escape from the flames .
it is clear, however, that it is as fully matter as before .
the latter end is only pursued when it seems coincident with the former .
this amendment was so obviously proper, that the house concurred in it nem .
wilson, this is your property . ''
these float, and serve all the purposes of a mere rope on land .
entered both gentlemen in my ledger, and opened a running account with each .
 ''the next morning i called for the snuff box, when we resumed, quite eagerly, the conversation of the preceding day .
the editor of l  'etoile had no right to be offended at m  . beauvais' unreasoning belief.
i attracted my brother 's attention by signs, pointed to the floating barrels that came near us, and did everything in my power to make him understand what i was about to do .
heigho when will any invention visit the human pericranium?
but it has been suggested that the corpse discovered, is not that of the marie rogêt for the conviction of whose assassin, or assassins, the reward is offered, and respecting whom, solely, our agreement has been arranged with the prefect .
but this half sentiment at no time amounted to conviction .
of the worst portion of the crimes committed, it is probable that he is innocent .
come now that 's a fine fellow .
i bought auction copies cheap of     ''lord brougham's speeches, ''  ''cobbett's complete works, '' the  ''new slang syllabus, '' the  ''whole art of snubbing, ''  ''prentice's billingsgate, '' folio edition, and  ''lewis g  . clarke on tongue. ''
i said   'legitimate deductions;' but my meaning is not thus fully expressed .
the tumult had ceased .
of the doctrines themselves that is, of their falsity, or of their probability i say nothing .
it is not impossible that he was wrong; but he would have convinced you of his being in the right; for he was a man of great eloquence .
the project, at the desire of mr     . osborne, was kept a profound secret from the public the only persons entrusted with the design being those actually engaged in the construction of the machine, which was built under the superintendence of mr. mason, mr. holland, sir everard bringhurst, and mr. osborne, at the seat of the latter gentleman near penstruthal, in wales.
 ''will the baron join us in a hunting of the boar? ''  ''metzengerstein does not hunt; ''  ''metzengerstein will not attend, '' were the haughty and laconic answers .
but his limbs were rigid his lips were livid his lately beaming eyes were riveted in death .
persons who are narrating facts, are seldom so particular as mr  . kissam seems to be, about day and date and precise location.
 ''amontillado ''  ''as you are engaged, i am on my way to luchesi .
for this the unreasonable villains clapped me into jail; and the gentlemen of the eye sore trade could not well avoid cutting my connection when i came out .
the main building was about twenty four feet long and sixteen broad certainly not more .
here, in imitation of malibran, she modified the original phrase of bellini, so as to let her voice descend to the tenor g, when, by a rapid transition, she struck the g above the treble stave, springing over an interval of two octaves .
getting upon the sacking of the bedstead, i looked over the head board minutely at the second casement .
shall i say you will be there? ''
i now thought it possible that the coating of dirt might have something to do with the failure; so i carefully rinsed the parchment by pouring warm water over it, and, having done this, i placed it in a tin pan, with the skull downwards, and put the pan upon a furnace of lighted charcoal .
he might have been fifteen or fifty, and was twenty one years and seven months .
her rigging, build, and general equipment, all negative a supposition of this kind .
the passengers were, consequently, in high spirits and disposed to be social .
it was level, and covered with fine hard gravel .
i saw, in fine, that he would be driven, as a matter of course, to simplicity, if not deliberately induced to it as a matter of choice .
the house was a four story one, with garrets mansardes .
his business is of importance and concerns the lady herself .
shameful debaucheries flagrant treacheries unheard of atrocities gave his trembling vassals quickly to understand that no servile submission on their part no punctilios of conscience on his own were thenceforward to prove any security against the remorseless fangs of a petty caligula .
all was gold of antique date and of great variety french, spanish, and german money, with a few english guineas, and some counters, of which we had never seen specimens before .
my acquaintance with ritzner commenced at the magnificent château jung, into which a train of droll adventures, not to be made public, threw a place in his regard, and here, with somewhat more difficulty, a partial insight into his mental conformation .
you were not to be found, and i was fearful of losing a bargain . ''
the balloon was unusually steady, and looked beautifully .
 ''yes, yes, '' i said,  ''yes, yes . ''  ''you?
is it not indeed, possible that, while a high order of genius is necessarily ambitious, the highest is above that which is termed ambition?
would a number of men have so dragged a corpse at all as to have left evident traces of the dragging?
the ancient rails were very slight, and placed so close together as to be, according to modern notions, quite frivolous, if not dangerous in the extreme .
i had reached the conclusion, it will be remembered, that the extra baggage of my friend, the artist, would prove to be pictures, or at least a picture; for i knew he had been for several weeks in conference with nicolino: and now here was a box, which, from its shape, could possibly contain nothing in the world but a copy of leonardo 's  ''last supper; '' and a copy of this very  ''last supper, '' done by rubini the younger, at florence, i had known, for some time, to be in the possession of nicolino .
such invitations became less cordial less frequent in time they ceased altogether .
with its emissaries, the name of dupin had grown into a household word .
and i looked upon the characters of the rock, and they were changed; and the characters were silence .
this enabled me to see perpendicularly down, but having found it impossible to place any similar contrivance overhead, on account of the peculiar manner of closing up the opening there, and the consequent wrinkles in the cloth, i could expect to see no objects situated directly in my zenith .
this was in truth a very droll little somebody .
these phenomena were occasioned by the expansion of the gas, through increase of heat in the atmosphere, and the consequent disruption of the minute particles of ice with which the network had become encrusted during the night .
whatever may be said against the abuses of the artificial landscape gardening, a mixture of pure art in a garden scene, adds to it a great beauty .
but these other apartments were densely crowded, and in them beat feverishly the heart of life .
who indeed would think of compassioning a shadow?
with a few rapid lateral passes i made the lids quiver, as in incipient sleep, and with a few more i closed them altogether .
it is needless to say that i felt inexpressibly alarmed .
i perceive you have an engagement .
 ''allow me, mon ami, '' now said monsieur maillard, addressing myself,  ''allow me to send you a morsel of this veal a la st  . menhoult you will find it particularly fine. ''
we neglected all care of the ship, as worse than useless, and securing ourselves, as well as possible, to the stump of the mizen mast, looked out bitterly into the world of ocean .
let us close this casement; the air is chilling and dangerous to your frame .
the discoloration of ages had been great .
  ''what the devil's the matter now '' said a second .
from its queenly possessor la bellissima, to the duc de l 'omelette, six peers of the empire conveyed the happy bird .
slowly with a tortoise gradation approached the faint gray dawn of the psychal day .
on the uttermost of the steps which led down into the dread chamber was a large fragment of the coffin, with which, it seemed, that she had endeavored to arrest attention by striking the iron door .
passing my hand down behind the board, i readily discovered and pressed the spring, which was, as i had supposed, identical in character with its neighbor .
the noise was, at length, very effectually silenced by jupiter, who, getting out of the hole with a dogged air of deliberation, tied the brute 's mouth up with one of his suspenders, and then returned, with a grave chuckle, to his task .
after a few more passes .
in fact nothing could well be more simple more utterly unpretending than this cottage .
the letter, having been published, gave rise to a variety of gossip and opinion .
 ''surprisingly beautiful '' exclaimed a second .
in my own heart there dwells no faith in præter nature .
it was, however, the only book immediately at hand; and i indulged a vague hope that the excitement which now agitated the hypochondriac, might find relief for the history of mental disorder is full of similar anomalies even in the extremeness of the folly which i should read .
the name is bedlo with an e, all the world over, and i never knew it to be spelt otherwise in my life . ''
i discarded my medical books .
this stream is regulated by the flux and reflux of the sea it being constantly high and low water every six hours .
there was no longer the faintest sign of vitality in m  . valdemar; and concluding him to be dead, we were consigning him to the charge of the nurses, when a strong vibratory motion was observable in the tongue.
this associate is of swarthy complexion .
a few moves having been made, no step is certain .
we had birds, gold fish, a fine dog, rabbits, a small monkey, and a cat .
the worm had food no more .
 ''i need scarcely tell you, '' said dupin, as he finished the perusal of my notes,  ''that this is a far more intricate case than that of the rue morgue; from which it differs in one important respect .
through joy and through sorrow, i wrote .
he has thought it sagacious to echo the small talk of the lawyers, who, for the most part, content themselves with echoing the rectangular precepts of the courts .
the doors again close, the magician resumes his original position, and the drawer opens to return the medallion .
in the one case, the retarding force is momentary and complete within itself in the other it is endlessly accumulative .
in the multiform and multicolor of the flowers and the trees, he recognised the most direct and energetic efforts of nature at physical loveliness .
 ''superb physiologist '' said the westminster .
in an instant i dragged him to the floor, and pulled the heavy bed over him .
the person of whom i speak seemed born for the purpose of foreshadowing the doctrines of turgot, price, priestley, and condorcet of exemplifying by individual instance what has been deemed the chimera of the perfectionists .
you might as well note down a few while i read them to you .
but, stay you shall . ''
 ''i let myself down to the ledge, and found that it was impossible to retain a seat upon it except in one particular position .
we had been sitting in the dark, and dupin now arose for the purpose of lighting a lamp, but sat down again, without doing so, upon g  . 's saying that he had called to consult us, or rather to ask the opinion of my friend, about some official business which had occasioned a great deal of trouble.
we rested until two, and had supper; starting for the hills immediately afterwards, armed with three stout sacks, which, by good luck, were upon the premises .
or it might have been that he neglected to become either, merely in pursuance of his idea that in contempt of ambition is to be found one of the essential principles of happiness on earth .
i gathered enough, however, to know that it was astonished at my wishing to remain alive under such circumstances .
they resolved to leave means neither of ingress or egress to the sudden impulses of despair or of frenzy from within .
when, in an article entitled  ''the murders in the rue morgue, '' i endeavored, about a year ago, to depict some very remarkable features in the mental character of my friend, the chevalier c  . auguste dupin, it did not occur to me that i should ever resume the subject.
i concluded, however, to speak to him once more, and merely repeated my previous question .
its whole style differed materially from that of legrand .
luckily, the sole fastenings of the lid consisted of two sliding bolts .
scarcely had i secured myself in my new position, when we gave a wild lurch to starboard, and rushed headlong into the abyss .
the grocery way only think of that i resolved to be off forthwith, and try and establish myself in some decent occupation, without dancing attendance any longer upon the caprices of these eccentric old people, and running the risk of being made a genius of in the end .
d , at vienna once, did me an evil turn, which i told him, quite good humoredly, that i should remember .
i merely wish you to bear in mind that, with myself, it was sufficiently forcible to give a definite form a certain tendency to my inquiries in the chamber .
at first i could only afford to feed them upon mice which are cheap, but they fulfilled the scriptural injunction at so marvellous a rate, that i at length considered it my best policy to be liberal, and so indulged them in oysters and turtle .
the entire absence of ocean or sea, and indeed of any lake or river, or body of water whatsoever, struck me, at first glance, as the most extraordinary feature in its geological condition .
she has her little eccentricities, to be sure but then, you know, all old women all very old women are more or less eccentric ''  ''to be sure, '' said i,  ''to be sure and then the rest of these ladies and gentlemen  ''  ''are my friends and keepers, '' interupted monsieur maillard, drawing himself up with hauteur,  ''my very good friends and assistants . ''
now this, i reflected, was no very extraordinary distance .
i knew that pompey was beneath my feet, and that diana was sitting, according to my explicit directions, upon her hind legs, in the farthest corner of the room .
by undue profundity we perplex and enfeeble thought; and it is possible to make even venus herself vanish from the firmanent by a scrutiny too sustained, too concentrated, or too direct .
the loss of the eye was not so much as the insolent air of independence and contempt with which it regarded me after it was out .
and while i thus spoke, did there not cross your mind some thought of the physical power of words?
ever yours, william legrand .
in the second place, it impressed me i fear, indeed, that it will be impossible to make myself comprehended as gelatinous or glutinous matters impress the sense of touch .
do you know, however, '' continued he musingly,  ''that at sparta which is now palæ; ochori, at sparta, i say, to the west of the citadel, among a chaos of scarcely visible ruins, is a kind of socle, upon which are still legible the letters aaem .
he is appalled by what lies motionless before him .
 ''the balloon, then, had actually burst '' these were the first tumultuous ideas that hurried through my mind:  ''the balloon had positively burst i was falling falling with the most impetuous, the most unparalleled velocity to judge by the immense distance already so quickly passed over, it could not be more than ten minutes, at the farthest, before i should meet the surface of the earth, and be hurled into annihilation '' but at length reflection came to my relief .
we were strolling one night down a long dirty street in the vicinity of the palais royal .
i searched my pockets, hoping to find an old letter, when my hand fell upon the parchment .
in the meantime the cat slowly recovered .
 ''my friend, no; i will not impose upon your good nature .
the tints of the green carpet deepened; and when, one by one, the white daisies shrank away, there sprang up in place of them, ten by ten of the ruby red asphodel .
in sleep waking, the reasoning and its conclusion the cause and its effect are present together .
the younger seaman was, in all outward appearance, the converse of his companion .
his majesty counts heavily, smiles, and is taking wine .
are not the starry worlds that, from the abyss of nonentity, burst hourly forth into the heavens are not these stars, agathos, the immediate handiwork of the king?
 ''then i grew angry and cursed, with the curse of silence, the river, and the lilies, and the wind, and the forest, and the heaven, and the thunder, and the sighs of the water lilies .
art the arts arose supreme, and, once enthroned, cast chains upon the intellect which had elevated them to power .
i spoke to him frankly upon the subject; and, to my surprise, his interest seemed vividly excited .
v  . yes to avoid confusion.
that the path of our sun along such a circumference that the direction of our system in such an orbit would, to any human perception, deviate in the slightest degree from a straight line even in a million of years, is a proposition not to be entertained; and yet these ancient astronomers were absolutely cajoled, it appears, into believing that a decisive curvature had become apparent during the brief period of their astronomical history during the mere point during the utter nothingness of two or three thousand years how incomprehensible, that considerations such as this did not at once indicate to them the true state of affairs that of the binary revolution of our sun and alpha lyrae around a common centre of gravity april  .
i was by no means certain that he had noticed the sounds in question; although, assuredly, a strange alteration had, during the last few minutes, taken place in his demeanor .
he then proceeded to meet him, and gave the wellingtons a rub or two with his wool .
the more common conclusion, however, was that the affair was, simply, x traordinary and in x plicable .
there was one resource left me yet .
with becoming modesty, he forebore, nevertheless, to touch upon the theme i had just then most at heart i mean the mysterious circumstances attending the bugaboo war and, on my own part, what i conceive to be a proper sense of delicacy forbade me to broach the subject; although, in truth, i was exceedingly tempted to do so .
 ''why, yes, madam, there is .
in the second place, i could have no breeches until i came across the crow .
what is said about detecting and bringing into practice nice relations of size, proportion, and color, is one of those mere vaguenesses of speech which serve to veil inaccuracy of thought .
i will confine myself to the momentous details of my own lamentable adventure .
the cushions we probed with the fine long needles you have seen me employ .
i knew that in more than one place it must be already severed .
since the world began there have been two jeremys .
a wrong is unredressed when retribution overtakes its redresser .
 ''my body was now inclined towards the side of the car, at an angle of about forty five degrees; but it must not be understood that i was therefore only forty five degrees below the perpendicular .
i am sorry that you could not have paid us a visit at an earlier period, that you might have judged for yourself .
this done, we wait until the palace is half way up, and then we pay some tasty architect to run us up an ornamental mud hovel, right against it; or a down east or dutch pagoda, or a pig sty, or an ingenious little bit of fancy work, either esquimau, kickapoo, or hottentot .
i had found the spell of the picture in an absolute life likeliness of expression, which, at first startling, finally confounded, subdued, and appalled me .
i passed down a long and winding staircase, requesting him to be cautious as he followed .
the piazzas of the main building and western wing had no floors, as is usual; but at the doors and at each window, large, flat irregular slabs of granite lay imbedded in the delicious turf, affording comfortable footing in all weather .
but it is by no means my present object to pen an essay on happiness .
its variations seem to be chiefly of degree .
the multitudinous conglomeration of rare matter into nebulæ, planets, suns, and other bodies which are neither nebulæ, suns, nor planets, is for the sole purpose of supplying pabulum for the idiosyncrasy of the organs of an infinity of rudimental beings .
the handkerchief bore the name,   'marie rogêt  .' fragments of dress were seen on the branches around.
from the fourth the bones had been thrown down, and lay promiscuously upon the earth, forming at one point a mound of some size .
leeches were applied to the temples .
it was evident, that, at the expiration of an hour, the pitcher, getting full, would be forced to run over, and to run over at the mouth, which was somewhat lower than the rim .
this machinery is situated just beneath the left shoulder of the turk, and is consequently easily reached by the right hand of the man concealed, if we suppose his right arm brought across the breast .
up to the period when i fell i had counted fifty two paces, and upon resuming my walk, i had counted forty eight more; when i arrived at the rag .
well, then, you shall be married precisely precisely, now mind when three sundays come together in a week do you hear me, sir what are you gaping at?
but there were very few of the terror stricken people who attributed these doings to the agency of human hands .
 ''god bless me my dear fellow, '' here again whistled the bundle,  ''what what what why, what is the matter?
i had indulged more freely than usual in the excesses of the wine table; and now the suffocating atmosphere of the crowded rooms irritated me beyond endurance .
i should prefer, however, that you have the actual fact to bear you out .
what now might have been my conduct it is difficult to say .
 ''my son, '' he replied,  ''it is still the study of nosology; but in hitting the elector upon the nose you have overshot your mark .
  ''well, den, zit still and pehabe yourself, or i'll rap you again mid me vist .
that a mile to the northward is ambaaren .
i had long been plotting one of those ill natured pieces of practical wit at his expense in which i had hitherto been so uniformly unsuccessful .
no word spoke the deliverer .
that nebulous light had been extinguished .
when maelzel opens the door no  . i, the man within is not in any danger of discovery, for the keenest eye cannot penetrate more than about two inches into the darkness within.
the rue des drômes is a short and narrow but populous thoroughfare, not far from the banks of the river, and at a distance of some two miles, in the most direct course possible, from the pension of madame rogêt .
it was a beautiful scarabæus, and, at that time, unknown to naturalists of course a great prize in a scientific point of view .
how my elder brother escaped destruction i cannot say, for i never had an opportunity of ascertaining .
he comes; he is coming; there he is  ''who?
this there was no great difficulty in doing; for the smack flew round steadily enough, and upon an even keel only swaying to and fro, with the immense sweeps and swelters of the whirl .
after listening to them for some time, with thoughtful attention, i at length succeeded perfectly in translating their import .
impressed with this idea, i was about to relinquish my hold and give up the ghost with a good grace, when i was arrested by the cry of the angel, who bade me hold on .
we have a task before us which must be speedily performed .
i have been looking at the timbers of the ship .
 ''her companion also wears remarkably well, '' said the one of my trio who had spoken first .
altering my countenance, therefore, in a moment, from its bepuffed and distorted appearance, to an expression of arch and coquettish benignity, i gave my lady a pat on the one cheek, and a kiss on the other, and without saying one syllable furies i could not, left her astonished at my drollery, as i pirouetted out of the room in a pas de zephyr .
the charitable, nevertheless, attributed the alteration in the conduct of the young nobleman to the natural sorrow of a son for the untimely loss of his parents forgetting, however, his atrocious and reckless behavior during the short period immediately succeeding that bereavement .
after some delay, a cart arrived at the wharf, with an oblong pine box, which was every thing that seemed to be expected .
it was not a groan of pain or of grief oh, no it was the low stifled sound that arises from the bottom of the soul when overcharged with awe .
he seemed quite willing to speak of his position as superintendent of a maison de sante; and, indeed, the topic of lunacy was, much to my surprise, a favorite one with all present .
if not like me, vat for vy buy de pig in the poke? ''  ''you wretch '' said i, catching my breath  ''you you you villainous old hag ''  ''ag? ole? me not so ver ole, after all me not one single day more dan de eighty doo  . ''  ''eighty two '' i ejaculated, staggering to the wall  ''eighty two hundred thousand baboons the miniature said twenty seven years and seven months ''  ''to be sure dat is so ver true but den de portraite has been take for dese fifty five year.
he proceeded by observing, analyzing, and classifying facts instantiae naturae, as they were affectedly called into general laws .
what reason could there have been for the low the singularly low tone of those unmeaning words which the lady uttered hurriedly in bidding him adieu?
bravo bravo there is none but epiphanes, no there is none: so tear down the temples, and put out the sun well and strenuously sung the populace are hailing him         'prince of ts,' as well as 'glory of the east,' 'delight of the universe,' and 'most remarkable of cameleopards .'
the corpse, already greatly decayed and clotted with gore, stood erect before the eyes of the spectators .
they tell also of a vague horror at my heart, on account of that heart 's unnatural stillness .
now, here is a clear gain, in a very brief period, of no less than one dollar and twenty five cents this is in the mere cases of snap and gruff; and i solemnly assure the reader that these extracts are taken at random from my day book .
with a more than human resolution i lay still .
the game being ended, maelzel will again if desired, exhibit the mechanism of the box, in the same manner as before .
we made a determined effort to put back, but our little boat was like a feather in the breath of the tempest .
the considerate kindness of the angel mollified me in no little measure; and, aided by the water with which he diluted my port more than once, i at length regained sufficient temper to listen to his very extraordinary discourse .
i quote a passage or two from its columns:  ''we are persuaded that pursuit has hitherto been on a false scent, so far as it has been directed to the barrière du roule .
and in this calculation i was not deceived .
the result was, that i got rid of the old bore, and began to feel a little independent and gentleman like .
let us drink let us pour out an offering to yon solemn sun which these gaudy lamps and censers are so eager to subdue '' and, having made me pledge him in a bumper, he swallowed in rapid succession several goblets of the wine .
 ''it is easily understood, '' says mr  . ellison,  ''that what might improve a closely scrutinized detail, might, at the same time, injure a general and more distantly observed effect. ''
ah, not in knowledge is happiness, but in the acquisition of knowledge in for ever knowing, we are for ever blessed; but to know all were the curse of a fiend .
one fine morning, very shortly afterwards,  ''i awoke and found myself famous . ''
thus interested, and knowing that the heir she sought was actually in the city, she made inquiries of her party respecting me .
he explained to me although i have forgotten the explanation how what i observed was, in fact, the natural consequence of the forms of the floating fragments and showed me how it happened that a cylinder, swimming in a vortex, offered more resistance to its suction, and was drawn in with greater difficulty than an equally bulky body, of any form whatever  .  ''there was one startling circumstance which went a great way in enforcing these observations, and rendering me anxious to turn them to account, and this was that, at every revolution, we passed something like a barrel, or else the yard or the mast of a vessel, while many of these things, which had been on our level when i first opened my eyes upon the wonders of the whirlpool, were now high up above us, and seemed to have moved but little from their original station.
every connoisseur in such matters admitted the legs to be good .
having pulled the bag up in this way, and formed a complete enclosure on all sides, and at bottom, it was now necessary to fasten up its top or mouth, by passing its material over the hoop of the net work in other words, between the net work and the hoop .
oh he says the king is coming in triumph; that he is dressed in state; that he has just finished putting to death, with his own hand, a thousand chained israelitish prisoners for this exploit the ragamuffin is lauding him to the skies .
smith, eh? brigadier general john a     . b. c.? i say    '' here mr. s. thought proper to put his finger to the side of his nose  ''i say, you don't mean to insinuate now, really and truly, and conscientiously, that you don't know all about that affair of smith's, as well as i do, eh? smith?
this hideous murder accomplished, i set myself forthwith, and with entire deliberation, to the task of concealing the body .
the cards were dealt .
it had not been their intention to return; but, at my request, they agreed to look in upon the patient about ten the next night .
at the same moment, the man with the teetotum predilection, set himself to spinning around the apartment, with immense energy, and with arms outstretched at right angles with his body; so that he had all the air of a tee totum in fact, and knocked everybody down that happened to get in his way .
upon so doing, i soon rose above the difficulty, and perceived immediately, that i had obtained a great increase in my rate of ascent .
i began distinctly, positively, to remember that there had been no drawing upon the parchment when i made my sketch of the scarabæus .
here miss bas bleu beckoned to me in a very peremptory manner; and i was obliged, will i nill i, to leave mrs   . p. for the purpose of deciding a dispute touching the title of a certain poetical drama of lord byron 's.
i called pompey to my side .
 ''i know not, '' continued dupin,  ''what impression i may have made, so far, upon your own understanding; but i do not hesitate to say that legitimate deductions even from this portion of the testimony the portion respecting the gruff and shrill voices are in themselves sufficient to engender a suspicion which should give direction to all farther progress in the investigation of the mystery .
here, however, after a long and very deliberate scrutiny, i saw nothing to excite particular suspicion .
let it suffice, that among spendthrifts i out heroded herod, and that, giving name to a multitude of novel follies, i added no brief appendix to the long catalogue of vices then usual in the most dissolute university of europe .
at length there broke in upon my dreams a cry as of horror and dismay; and thereunto, after a pause, succeeded the sound of troubled voices, intermingled with many low moanings of sorrow or of pain .
the man with the horrors was drowned upon the spot the little stiff gentleman floated off in his coffin and the victorious legs, seizing by the waist the fat lady in the shroud, rushed out with her into the street, and made a bee line for the  ''free and easy, '' followed under easy sail by the redoubtable hugh tarpaulin, who, having sneezed three or four times, panted and puffed after him with the arch duchess ana pest .
our line has been called a race of visionaries; and in many striking particulars in the character of the family mansion in the frescos of the chief saloon in the tapestries of the dormitories in the chiselling of some buttresses in the armory but more especially in the gallery of antique paintings in the fashion of the library chamber and, lastly, in the very peculiar nature of the library 's contents there is more than sufficient evidence to warrant the belief .
ere i could recover the use of my senses he was gone .
my ideas on this topic had also received confirmation by a passage in the eighty second volume of the philosophical transactions, in which it is stated that at an occultation of jupiter 's satellites, the third disappeared after having been about  '' or  '' of time indistinct, and the fourth became indiscernible near the limb .
i listened in extremity of horror .
by reference to the   'diary of sir humphrey davy' cottle and munroe, london, pp .
presently i took a candle, and seating myself at the other end of the room, proceeded to scrutinize the parchment more closely .
you are damned, and he has become the hero of the day .
and this i did for seven long nights every night just at midnight but i found the eye always closed; and so it was impossible to do the work; for it was not the old man who vexed me, but his evil eye .
at all events, we can trace the science back to a very remote period of antiquity .
but rage will carry a lady to any extreme; and in the present care it carried mrs  . simpson to the very extraordinary extreme of attempting to hold a conversation in a tongue that she did not altogether understand.
all at once we were taken aback by a breeze from over helseggen .
as, in an instant afterwards, he stood with the still living and breathing child within his grasp, upon the marble flagstones by the side of the marchesa, his cloak, heavy with the drenching water, became unfastened, and, falling in folds about his feet, discovered to the wonder stricken spectators the graceful person of a very young man, with the sound of whose name the greater part of europe was then ringing .
 ''clever fellow '' said the foreign .
the windows are narrow and deep, with very tiny panes and a great deal of sash .
i recollect that i have been subject to catalepsy .
arrangements were easily effected with some of the numerous corps of body snatchers, with which london abounds; and, upon the third night after the funeral, the supposed corpse was unearthed from a grave eight feet deep, and deposited in the opening chamber of one of the private hospitals .
the cloak which i had worn was of a rare description of fur; how rare, how extravagantly costly, i shall not venture to say .
it seems probable that if, upon reaching the second stage, we could recall the impressions of the first, we should find these impressions eloquent in memories of the gulf beyond .
to these qualities he united the warmest and truest heart which ever beat in a human bosom .
in all this, if i err not, my reason had little to do .
i was enabled to discharge the onerous duties of this profession, only by that rigid adherence to system which formed the leading feature of my mind .
i pledge you the honor of a gentleman, and of a frenchman, that we intend you no injury .
for a moment she remained trembling and reeling to and fro upon the threshold then, with a low moaning cry, fell heavily inward upon the person of her brother, and in her violent and now final death agonies, bore him to the floor a corpse, and a victim to the terrors he had anticipated .
as time passed and no discovery ensued, a thousand contradictory rumors were circulated, and journalists busied themselves in suggestions .
    'the literary world' speaks of him, confidently, as a native of presburg misled, perhaps, by the account in 'the home journal' but i am pleased in being able to state positively, since i have it from his own lips, that he was born in utica, in the state of new york, although both his parents, i believe, are of presburg descent .
it was about a month after this and during the interval i had seen nothing of legrand when i received a visit, at charleston, from his man, jupiter .
although both the immediate and the predisposing causes, and even the actual diagnosis, of this disease are still mysterious, its obvious and apparent character is sufficiently well understood .
he seemed, too, to take an eager delight in its exercise if not exactly in its display and did not hesitate to confess the pleasure thus derived .
but out of this our cloud upon the precipice 's edge, there grows into palpability, a shape, far more terrible than any genius or any demon of a tale, and yet it is but a thought, although a fearful one, and one which chills the very marrow of our bones with the fierceness of the delight of its horror .
the truth the tragedy of the drama was no more .
all is then dependent upon the variable judgment of the players .
i have also me and the earth .
they looked like strips torn off, and were on the thorn bush, about a foot from the ground     .....
it could be best attached about the neck, where the head would prevent its slipping off .
we will have many a rich laugh about it at the palazzo he he he over our wine he he he ''  ''the amontillado '' i said .
even when a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at least five or six days  ' immersion, it sinks again if let alone .'
and now a new anxiety seized me the sound would be heard by a neighbour the old man 's hour had come with a loud yell, i threw open the lantern and leaped into the room .
a crow thieves; a fox cheats; a weasel outwits; a man diddles .
dr   . d resolved at once to remain with the patient all night, while dr. f took leave with a promise to return at daybreak.
it was my design to convey the idea that both were effected in the same manner, at the same point .
the murderers must have passed, then, through those of the back room .
who would dare  ''  ''the thief, '' said g  .,  ''is the minister d , who dares all things, those unbecoming as well as those becoming a man.
it was a dim, sliver like rim, alone, as it rushed down the unfathomable ocean .
i had been too wary for that .
he staggered against the wall, while i closed the door with an oath, and commanded him to draw .
had m  . beauvais, in his search for the body of marie, discovered a corpse corresponding in general size and appearance to the missing girl, he would have been warranted without reference to the question of habiliment at all in forming an opinion that his search had been successful.
the thought came gently and stealthily, and it seemed long before it attained full appreciation; but just as my spirit came at length properly to feel and entertain it, the figures of the judges vanished, as if magically, from before me; the tall candles sank into nothingness; their flames went out utterly; the blackness of darkness supervened; all sensations appeared swallowed up in a mad rushing descent as of the soul into hades .
he declined bearing the cartel, however, and in fact, dissuaded me from sending it at all; but was candid enough to admit that the  ''daddy long legs '' had been disgracefully in the wrong more especially in what related to the epithets  ''gentleman and scholar . ''
in conclusion, i dwelt, with a convincing energy, upon the perils that encompass the course of love that course of true love that never did run smooth and thus deduced the manifest danger of rendering that course unnecessarily long .
    'a piece,' says this journal, 'of one of the unfortunate girl's petticoats was torn out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams .
 ''these appearances, which bewilder you, are merely electrical phenomena not uncommon or it may be that they have their ghastly origin in the rank miasma of the tarn .
was sure that the shrill voice was that of a man of a frenchman .
she was immensely wealthy, and being left, for the second time, a widow without children, she bethought herself of my existence in america, and for the purpose of making me her heir, paid a visit to the united states, in company with a distant and exceedingly lovely relative of her second husband 's a madame stephanie lalande .
they must have been very blind not to see this, even in their own day; for even in their own day many of the long  ''established '' axioms had been rejected .
at length, upon a peremptory call for  ''madame lalande, '' she arose at once, without affectation or demur, from the chaise longue upon which she had sat by my side, and, accompanied by one or two gentlemen and her female friend of the opera, repaired to the piano in the main drawing room .
the tracks of which i speak were but faintly perceptible having been impressed upon the firm, yet pleasantly moist surface of what looked more like green genoese velvet than any thing else .
our friend here can surely comprehend you without all this .
indeed, the baron  's perverse attachment to his lately acquired charger an attachment which seemed to attain new strength from every fresh example of the animal's ferocious and demon like propensities at length became, in the eyes of all reasonable men, a hideous and unnatural fervor .
an attempt to draw blood from the arm failed .
look not behind thee, then, at its unavoidable degradation; but take courage, ply thy legs with vigor, and scud for the hippodrome remember that thou art antiochus epiphanes .
one word first, my una, in regard to man 's general condition at this epoch .
at long intervals some masterminds appeared, looking upon each advance in practical science as a retro gradation in the true utility .
being both, apparently, occupied with thought, neither of us had spoken a syllable for fifteen minutes at least .
if we allow that madame rogêt, from her age and grief, could not go over, which is allowing a great deal, there certainly must have been some one who would have thought it worth while to go over and attend the investigation, if they thought the body was that of marie .
when i came of age my father asked me, one day, if i would step with him into his study .
this dwarf he supposed to conceal himself during the opening of the box by thrusting his legs into two hollow cylinders, which were represented to be but which are not among the machinery in the cupboard no  . i, while his body was out of the box entirely, and covered by the drapery of the turk.
demanded the youth, in a querulous and husky tone of voice, as he became instantly aware that the mysterious steed in the tapestried chamber was the very counterpart of the furious animal before his eyes .
let us ascend this battlement, and throw our eyes upon the town and neighboring country .
i therefore thought proper to contrive a hiding place in the hold .
i really do hope, mr  . bob, that you will look upon this explanation as satisfactory. ''
 ''for the most part, we are paid for the insertion of a maiden attempt especially in verse .
in vain we besieged the old gentleman with importunities .
here, the address, to the minister, diminutive and feminine; there the superscription, to a certain royal personage, was markedly bold and decided; the size alone formed a point of correspondence .
the whole transaction is denied .
he mentioned muriton of red tongue; cauliflowers with velouté sauce; veal à la st   . menehoult; marinade à la st. florentin; and orange jellies en mosäiques.
this gentleman had, indeed, some two or three years before, been the superintendent of the establishment, but grew crazy himself, and so became a patient .
then a rushing revival of soul and a successful effort to move .
question me then, my oinos, freely and without fear .
 ''its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it on earth . ''
adelaide curtis, albany, new york .
and once but once again in the silence of the night; there came through my lattice the soft sighs which had forsaken me; and they modelled themselves into familiar and sweet voice, saying:  ''sleep in peace for the spirit of love reigneth and ruleth, and, in taking to thy passionate heart her who is ermengarde, thou art absolved, for reasons which shall be made known to thee in heaven, of thy vows unto eleonora . ''
its principle regards our well being; and thus the desire to be well is excited simultaneously with its development .
others again, spoke confidently of a magnet .
on the contrary, i believe that i am well made, and possess what nine tenths of the world would call a handsome face .
how greatly this most exquisite portraiture harassed me, for it could not justly be termed a caricature, i will not now venture to describe .
then entire forgetfulness of all that followed; of all that a later day and much earnestness of endeavor have enabled me vaguely to recall .
any one, indeed, might perceive, with half an eye, that, had the real design of the  ''daddy '' been what it wished to appear, it, the  ''daddy, '' might have expressed itself in terms more direct, more pungent, and altogether more to the purpose .
what l  'etoile says in respect to this abbreviation of the garter's being an usual occurrence, shows nothing beyond its own pertinacity in error .
so far, you had been stooping in your gait; but now i saw you draw yourself up to your full height .
he carries the war into africa .
here, at the road side inn, or beneath the foliage of the woods, he indulges, unchecked by any eye except those of his boon companions, in all the mad excess of a counterfeit hilarity the joint offspring of liberty and of rum .
let us now discover, upon the deceased, garters such as the living used, and it is almost folly to proceed .
arose early, and, to my great joy, at length beheld what there could be no hesitation in supposing the northern pole itself .
the cut on this page gives a tolerable representation of the figure as seen by the citizens of richmond a few weeks ago .
you will understand that i suggest nothing here as probable, or as cöincident with my own opinion .
never was such a place for keeping the true time .
secure, however, in the inscrutability of my place of concealment, i felt no embarrassment whatever .
at four precisely, therefore, the carriage drew up at the door of the principal inn .
he was really the most finicky little personage that had ever been seen in vondervotteimittiss .
the assassin had escaped through the window which looked upon the bed .
he seemed to receive hermann 's amicable letter as a matter of course, and after a few words of general conversation, went to an inner room and brought out the everlasting treatise  ''duelli lex scripta, et non; aliterque . ''
 ''i found myself at the foot of a high mountain, and looking down into a vast plain, through which wound a majestic river .
i next tried my hand at the organ grinding for a while, and may say that i made out pretty well .
he at length went on deck, and i saw him no more .
it is soon done nothing but  ''examiner, ''  ''slang whang, '' and  ''times '' then  ''times, ''  ''slang whang, '' and  ''examiner '' and then  ''times, ''  ''examiner, '' and  ''slang whang . ''
i must do him the justice to say, however, that when he made up his mind finally to settle in that town, it was under the impression that no newspaper, and consequently no editor, existed in that particular section of the country .
i threw up my hands and endeavored, with all my strength, to force upward the ponderous iron bar .
my own mistake arose, naturally enough, through too careless, too inquisitive, and too impulsive a temperament .
 ''yes, '' i said,  ''let us be gone . ''
my dreams were terrifically disturbed by visions of the angel of the odd .
to the uttermost regions of the globe have not the indignant winds bruited its unparalleled infamy?
she, however, shunned society, and, attaching herself to me alone rendered me happy .
we shall have a glimpse of his person as he passes by the temple of ashimah .
for one hour at least we had maintained a profound silence; while each, to any casual observer, might have seemed intently and exclusively occupied with the curling eddies of smoke that oppressed the atmosphere of the chamber .
in five minutes the whole sea, as far as vurrgh, was lashed into ungovernable fury; but it was between moskoe and the coast that the main uproar held its sway .
here he finds, among other odd things, that the people enjoy extreme happiness; that they have no law; that they die without pain; that they are from ten to thirty feet in height; that they live five thousand years; that they have an emperor called irdonozur; and that they can jump sixty feet high, when, being out of the gravitating influence, they fly about with fans .
the officers bade me accompany them in their search .
in general, every spectator is now thoroughly satisfied of having beheld and completely scrutinized, at one and the same time, every individual portion of the automaton, and the idea of any person being concealed in the interior, during so complete an exhibition of that interior, if ever entertained, is immediately dismissed as preposterous in the extreme .
its bottom and banks were as those of the pond if a defect could have been attributed, in point of picturesqueness, it was that of excessive neatness .
i then smiled gaily, to find the deed so far done .
he saluted me with an air of profound respect, slightly blended with a fatherly and patronizing admiration, wrought in him, no doubt, by my appearance of extreme youth and inexperience .
the phantasmagoric effect was vastly heightened by the artificial introduction of a strong continual current of wind behind the draperies giving a hideous and uneasy animation to the whole .
with riches merely surpassing those of any citizen, it would have been easy to suppose him engaging to supreme excess in the fashionable extravagances of his time; or busying himself with political intrigues; or aiming at ministerial power, or purchasing increase of nobility, or devising gorgeous architectural piles; or collecting large specimens of virtu; or playing the munificent patron of letters and art; or endowing and bestowing his name upon extensive institutions of charity .
by the mother who bore you for the love of heaven by your hope of salvation, i implore you to put back for the box '' the captain, for a moment, seemed touched by the earnest appeal of the artist, but he regained his stern composure, and merely said:  ''mr .
surely, man had never before so terribly altered, in so brief a period, as had roderick usher it was with difficulty that i could bring myself to admit the identity of the wan being before me with the companion of my early boyhood .
i struggled for breath .
the items of evidence and information thus collected by myself, from the newspapers, at the suggestion of dupin, embraced only one more point but this was a point of seemingly vast consequence .
it must, however, have been no inconsiderable time, for when i partially recovered the sense of existence, i found the day breaking, the balloon at a prodigious height over a wilderness of ocean, and not a trace of land to be discovered far and wide within the limits of the vast horizon .
yet i cannot conceal it from my own perception that, immediately subsequent to the fall of the ruby drops, a rapid change for the worse took place in the disorder of my wife; so that, on the third subsequent night, the hands of her menials prepared her for the tomb, and on the fourth, i sat alone, with her shrouded body, in that fantastic chamber which had received her as my bride .
the best chess player in christendom may be little more than the best player of chess; but proficiency in whist implies capacity for success in all those more important undertakings where mind struggles with mind .
he died without speaking .
see  ''chemical essays, '' vol v  . our books the books which, for years, had formed no small portion of the mental existence of the invalid were, as might be supposed, in strict keeping with this character of phantasm.
the eye wandered from object to object, and rested upon none neither the grotesques of the greek painters, nor the sculptures of the best italian days, nor the huge carvings of untutored egypt .
in the flourishing times of the roman empire, it was the ordinary station of the prefect of the eastern provinces; and many of the emperors of the queen city among whom may be mentioned, especially, verus and valens spent here the greater part of their time .
for example, if this limit were three minutes, the moves of the automaton might be made at any given intervals longer than three minutes .
but he requested my attention particularly, and with an air of mysterious sagacity, to a thick octavo, written in barbarous latin by one hedelin, a frenchman, and having the quaint title,  ''duelli lex scripta, et non; aliterque . ''
i resolved to lash myself securely to the water cask upon which i now held, to cut it loose from the counter, and to throw myself with it into the water .
they sat, and while i answered cheerily, they chatted of familiar things .
 ''well, jupiter picked up the parchment, wrapped the beetle in it, and gave it to me .
soon after finishing the perusal of this description, he took his departure, more entirely depressed in spirits than i had ever known the good gentleman before .
his action was alternately vivacious and sullen .
at the expiration of this term it was opened for the reception of a sarcophagus; but, alas how fearful a shock awaited the husband, who, personally, threw open the door as its portals swung outwardly back, some white apparelled object fell rattling within his arms .
when the stream is most boisterous, and its fury heightened by a storm, it is dangerous to come within a norway mile of it .
  ''i don't know any such thing, you huzzy how should i? i think it only makes the matter more remarkable, doctor dubble l  . dee  '' kate.
keeping these impressions in view, i was cautious in what i said before the young lady; for i could not be sure that she was sane; and, in fact, there was a certain restless brilliancy about her eyes which half led me to imagine she was not .
imagination, feeling herself for once unshackled, roamed at will among the ever changing wonders of a shadowy and unstable land .
he spoke upon this topic with warmth: regarding not so much its immediate or obvious importance, which is little, as the character of the conclusions to which it might lead, or of the collateral propositions which it might serve to corroborate or sustain .
his wife he had newly married, and i had never yet seen her .
among men, my agathos, this idea would be considered heretical in the extreme .
    ''in this expedition to the 'bishop's hotel' i had been attended by jupiter, who had, no doubt, observed, for some weeks past, the abstraction of my demeanor, and took especial care not to leave me alone .
and then, again, the frog man croaked away as if the salvation of his soul depended upon every note that he uttered .
on the floor was an ingrain carpet, of excellent texture a white ground, spotted with small circular green figures .
in the first place, the voice seemed to reach our ears at least mine from a vast distance, or from some deep cavern within the earth .
this was done with the obvious design of affording a handle by which to carry the body .
the    ''mole '' spoke of the  ''lollipop '' as follows:  ''we have just received the 'lollipop' for october, and must say that never before have we perused any single number of any periodical which afforded us a felicity so supreme .
i shrank from amid them, and, swiftly, by a circuitous path, reached and entered the city .
it was silently taken to the barge office, and as silently removed .
but, in truth, i had no reason to believe that with the exception of the matter of relationship, and in the case of wilson himself, this similarity had ever been made a subject of comment, or even observed at all by our schoolfellows .
turn up your nose at things in general, and when you let slip any thing a little too absurd, you need not be at the trouble of scratching it out, but just add a footnote and say that you are indebted for the above profound observation to the     'kritik der reinem vernunft,' or to the 'metaphysithe anfongsgrunde der noturwissenchaft .'
some few ottomans and golden candelabra, of eastern figure, were in various stations about and there was the couch, too bridal couch of an indian model, and low, and sculptured of solid ebony, with a pall like canopy above .
but from the first move in the game of chess no especial second move follows of necessity .
there is no slipping apparent .
it grew quicker and quicker, and louder and louder every instant .
the mathematics afford no more absolute demonstrations, than the sentiment of his art yields to the artist .
i should rather have looked to see the things all lying on the ground and trampled under foot .
it was the marchesa aphrodite the adoration of all venice the gayest of the gay the most lovely where all were beautiful but still the young wife of the old and intriguing mentoni, and the mother of that fair child, her first and only one, who now, deep beneath the murky water, was thinking in bitterness of heart upon her sweet caresses, and exhausting its little life in struggles to call upon her name .
it consists of little else than the sea sand, and is about three miles long .
i then took up three planks from the flooring of the chamber, and deposited all between the scantlings .
here, take it back, and give me a glass of brandy and water in its place . ''
it was remarkable, as well for its color, as from its being the first we had seen since our departure from batavia .
a very large mastiff seemed to be in vigilant attendance upon these animals, each and all .
yet its memory was replete with horror horror more horrible from being vague, and terror more terrible from ambiguity .
but the treatise had made an indelible impression on my mind, and, as i sauntered along the dusky streets, i revolved carefully over in my memory the wild and sometimes unintelligible reasonings of the writer .
the sounds of life encompass his path .
you say,  ''in general . ''
i made the attempt in vain .
the officers were satisfied .
these are not only manifold but multiform, and lie frequently among recesses of thought altogether inaccessible to the ordinary understanding .
kepler guessed that is to say imagined .
to be sure, it has a circulation of , and its subscription list has increased one half within the last week, but then the sum it disburses, monthly, for contributions, is astoundingly enormous .
whence he came, i never ascertained .
the eyelids, transparent and bloodless, offered no complete impediment to vision .
heard distinctly     'sacré' and 'mon dieu .'
you may say any thing and every thing approaching to   'bread and butter .'
p  . referring to my notes.
his dress is scrupulously neat, but plain, unostentatious .
but in consideration of those rights to which as guests and strangers you may feel yourselves entitled, we will furthermore explain that we are here this night, prepared by deep research and accurate investigation, to examine, analyze, and thoroughly determine the indefinable spirit the incomprehensible qualities and nature of those inestimable treasures of the palate, the wines, ales, and liqueurs of this goodly metropolis: by so doing to advance not more our own designs than the true welfare of that unearthly sovereign whose reign is over us all, whose dominions are unlimited, and whose name is   'death' . ''
towards the end of this interview with mr  . crab, who really appeared to take a paternal interest in my welfare, he suggested to me that i might turn an honest penny, and, at the same time, advance my reputation, by occasionally playing thomas hawk for the  ''lollipop. ''
 ''thank you, no, '' i replied;  ''to say the truth, i am not particularly partial to veal a la st . what is it?
and hourly grew darker these shadows of similitude, and more full, and more definite, and more perplexing, and more hideously terrible in their aspect .
all things are either good or bad by comparison .
men lived; and died individually .
 ''from what i have already observed, '' said ellison,  ''you will understand that i reject the idea, here expressed, of recalling the original beauty of the country .
there, the dark, tall statures of the princes metzengerstein their muscular war coursers plunging over the carcasses of fallen foes startled the steadiest nerves with their vigorous expression; and here, again, the voluptuous and swan like figures of the dames of days gone by, floated away in the mazes of an unreal dance to the strains of imaginary melody .
the gait of my friend was unsteady, and the bells upon his cap jingled as he strode .
of this latter point, however, i am scarcely qualified to judge; for it was just dark as we arrived; and in american mansions of the better sort lights seldom, during the heat of summer, make their appearance at this, the most pleasant period of the day .
 ''time and tide wait for no man, '' says the captain .
dupin seemed singularly interested in the progress of this affair at least so i judged from his manner, for he made no comments .
i regarded the sweet mouth .
at length, as often happens to the sleeper by sleep and its world alone is death imaged at length, as sometimes happened on earth to the deep slumberer, when some flitting light half startled him into awaking, yet left him half enveloped in dreams so to me, in the strict embrace of the shadow came that light which alone might have had power to startle the light of enduring love .
he is an exceedingly puffy little old gentleman, with big circular eyes and a huge double chin .
yet he seemed not so much sulky as abstracted .
for a moment i even fancied that i had misconceived him, and that he was in sober earnest .
 ''let him discourse; it will ease his conscience, i am satisfied with having defeated him in his own castle .
meeting my betrothed in an avenue thronged with the élite of the city, i was hastening to greet her with one of my best considered bows, when a small particle of some foreign matter, lodging in the corner of my eye, rendered me, for the moment, completely blind .
there was no investigation of first causes, first principles .
a lunatic may be   'soothed,' as it is called, for a time, but, in the end, he is very apt to become obstreperous .
i took it for granted, therefore, that the earth still held them; and you will scarcely be surprised when i tell you that i felt a hope, nearly amounting to certainty, that the parchment so strangely found, involved a lost record of the place of deposit . ''
could not distinguish what was said .
upon quitting home, she gave it to be understood that she was about to visit her aunt in the rue des drômes and st  . eustache was requested to call for her at dark.
the great clock has seven faces one in each of the seven sides of the steeple so that it can be readily seen from all quarters .
 ''there is nothing at all like it, '' he would say;  ''we are a wonderful people, and live in a wonderful age .
no pictorial or sculptural combinations of points of human loveliness, do more than approach the living and breathing human beauty as it gladdens our daily path .
 ''at present we have not more than ten, altogether . ''
brought up close to his body and tightly compressed between his body and the side of the automaton, or else to use his left arm brought across his breast .
it is needless to say what effect this conduct, on the part of so fascinating a woman, had upon my excitable mind .
 ''he is coming '' said somebody farther up .
this is one of those anomalous propositions which, seemingly appealing to thought altogether apart from the mathematical, is yet one which only the mathematician can fully entertain .
let us, for example, imagine the automaton to play with his right arm .
she was what people call a notable woman, and could manage matters in the world without my assistance .
green leaves shrank before the hot breath of furnaces .
you cannot be made to see how the mere duration of the corpse on the shore could operate to multiply traces of the assassins .
in another moment he was on board, and rushing frantically down into the cabin .
the walls of the ravine through which the clear water still tranquilly flowed arose to an elevation of a hundred and occasionally of a hundred and fifty feet, and inclined so much toward each other as, in a great measure, to shut out the light of day; while the long plume like moss which depended densely from the intertwining shrubberies overhead, gave the whole chasm an air of funereal gloom .
my evil destiny pursued me as if in exultation, and proved, indeed, that the exercise of its mysterious dominion had as yet only begun .
the sight of blood inflamed its anger into phrenzy .
nonchalance: your diddler is nonchalant .
twice, during six years, we were forced to stay all night at anchor on account of a dead calm, which is a rare thing indeed just about here; and once we had to remain on the grounds nearly a week, starving to death, owing to a gale which blew up shortly after our arrival, and made the channel too boisterous to be thought of .
his habits are methodical and then he would prefer getting into a private and respectable small family, piously inclined .
indeed, however rich the imagination displayed in this ingenious fiction, it wanted much of the force which might have been given it by a more scrupulous attention to facts and to general analogy .
 ''still i do not quite understand, '' said dupin .
i shrank back but the closing walls pressed me resistlessly onward .
the baron, who had been unusually silent and abstracted in the earlier portion of the evening, at length seemed to be aroused from his apathy, took a leading part in the discourse, and dwelt upon the benefits, and more especially upon the beauties, of the received code of etiquette in passages of arms with an ardor, an eloquence, an impressiveness, and an affectionateness of manner, which elicited the warmest enthusiasm from his hearers in general, and absolutely staggered even myself, who well knew him to be at heart a ridiculer of those very points for which he contended, and especially to hold the entire fanfaronade of duelling etiquette in the sovereign contempt which it deserves .
i found talbot at home, and proceeded at once to acquaint him with my good fortune .
he discoursed much, and beyond doubt, learnedly; while i hazarded an occasional suggestion as the night wore drowsily away .
when  ''madame lalande '' was called upon to sing, the younger lady was intended; and it was she who arose to obey the call; my great, great, grandmother, to further the deception, arising at the same moment and accompanying her to the piano in the main drawing room .
least of all, could it have been that my fancy, shaken from its half slumber, had mistaken the head for that of a living person .
we both know this gentleman well .
the house was a good house not very old .
and now now i shuddered in her presence, and grew pale at her approach; yet, bitterly lamenting her fallen and desolate condition, i called to mind that she had loved me long, and, in an evil moment, i spoke to her of marriage .
the result was a firm conviction of their validity, and of the consequent innocence of st  . eustache.
it was an egregious insult to the good sense of the burghers of rotterdam .
it must be confessed that it has an amazingly moon hoaxy air .
these results have dependence upon nothing, and are influenced by nothing but the data originally given .
the school room was the largest in the house i could not help thinking, in the world .
you, however, had drawn a chair close to the chimney .
i knew that i had now fully recovered the use of my visual faculties and yet it was dark all dark the intense and utter raylessness of the night that endureth for evermore .
the balloon for such no doubt it was had now descended to within a hundred feet of the earth, allowing the crowd below a sufficiently distinct view of the person of its occupant .
our seclusion was perfect .
up the long avenue of aged oaks which led from the forest to the main entrance of the château metzengerstein, a steed, bearing an unbonneted and disordered rider, was seen leaping with an impetuosity which outstripped the very demon of the tempest .
 ''to be even with him, i complained of my weak eyes, and lamented the necessity of the spectacles, under cover of which i cautiously and thoroughly surveyed the whole apartment, while seemingly intent only upon the conversation of my host .
a figure, dressed like a magician, appears seated at the bottom of a wall, holding a wand in one hand, and a book in the other a number of questions, ready prepared, are inscribed on oval medallions, and the spectator takes any of these he chooses and to which he wishes an answer, and having placed it in a drawer ready to receive it, the drawer shuts with a spring till the answer is returned .
it proved, however, to have been without ball, and the fellow was suffered to go his way as a lunatic or a drunkard .
i had scarcely laid the first tier of my masonry when i discovered that the intoxication of fortunato had in a great measure worn off .
but, in his disordered fancy, the idea had assumed a more daring character, and trespassed, under certain conditions, upon the kingdom of inorganization .
the grass had grown around and over some of them .
the pantaloons, which thou sayest were made by bourdon, are an excellent pair of linen drawers, and thy robe de chambre is a shroud of no scanty dimensions . ''
then again i journeyed far down away into another country where it was all one dim and vague lake, with a boundary line of clouds .
some peculiarities, either in his early education, or in the nature of his intellect, had tinged with what is termed materialism the whole cast of his ethical speculations; and it was this bias, perhaps, which imperceptibly led him to perceive that the most advantageous, if not the sole legitimate field for the exercise of the poetic sentiment, was to be found in the creation of novel moods of purely physical loveliness .
she said very few words, and passed at once into her state room with mr   . w. my old inquisitiveness now returned.
 ''you observe there are no divisions between the words .
as for my old friend, madame joyeuse, i really could have wept for the poor lady, she appeared so terribly perplexed .
 ''but, '' i interposed,  ''you say that the skull was not upon the parchment when you made the drawing of the beetle .
there was something in his manner of emphasizing the word  ''peculiar, '' which caused me to shudder, without knowing why .
i had lived with the old gentleman all my life .
but the void within my heart refused, even thus, to be filled .
but, for many minutes, the heart beat on with a muffled sound .
ah, i see the balloon has collapsed, and we shall have a tumble into the sea .
 ''surely this is the most populous city of the east what a wilderness of people what a jumble of all ranks and ages what a multiplicity of sects and nations what a variety of costumes what a babel of languages what a screaming of beasts what a tinkling of instruments what a parcel of philosophers '' come let us be off .
method is the thing, after all .
 ''have you heard of the unhappy death of the old hunter berlifitzing? '' said one of his vassals to the baron, as, after the departure of the page, the huge steed which that nobleman had adopted as his own, plunged and curvetted, with redoubled fury, down the long avenue which extended from the chateau to the stables of metzengerstein .
in short, i became a new man, and lived a man 's life .
in a remote and terror inspiring angle was a square enclosure of eight or ten feet, comprising the sanctum,  ''during hours, '' of our principal, the reverend dr  . bransby.
i wish the composure but not the depression of solitude .
in the meantime, you shall be my escort home to night .
you have already fathomed the true character of this good gentleman .
 ''but, '' said the prefect, a little discomposed,  ''i am perfectly willing to take advice, and to pay for it .
it was easy, on the contrary, to imagine it pervading the entire regions of our planetary system, condensed into what we call atmosphere at the planets themselves, and perhaps at some of them modified by considerations, so to speak, purely geological .
  ''everything being now ready, i exacted from my wife an oath of secrecy in relation to all my actions from the day of my first visit to the bookseller's stall; and promising, on my part, to return as soon as circumstances would permit, i gave her what little money i had left, and bade her farewell .
our system revolves, it is true, about a common centre of gravity, but it does this in connection with and in consequence of a material sun whose mass more than counterbalances the rest of the system .
in fact, the facility with which i shall arrive, or have arrived, at the solution of this mystery, is in the direct ratio of its apparent insolubility in the eyes of the police . ''
but would any number of men have dreamed of resorting to such an expedient?
on the table beside me burned a lamp, and near it lay a little box .
i could not be mistaken in its character .
thus the only  ''artificial '' light which could avail mr  . locke, would be some artificial light which he should be able to throw not upon the  ''focal object of vision, '' but upon the real object to be viewed to wit: upon the moon.
you shall give me all the information in your power about these murders in the rue morgue . ''
monsieur le blanc professed total ignorance, as before .
put her in mind of it the first opportunity .
i have just left the deck, where i find it impossible to maintain a footing, although the crew seem to experience little inconvenience .
    ''i wonder who she can be? ''  ''why, in the name of all that is angelic, don't you know who she is? 'not to know her argues yourself unknown .'
body knew, was an unknown quantity; but in this case as he properly observed, there was an unknown quantity of x .
my sensations were those of entire happiness, for i felt that in a few minutes, at farthest, i should be relieved from my disagreeable situation .
but alas it was now far beyond my grasp .
now here, i at once saw, was a telescope to be used, and a definite point of view, admitting no variation, from which to use it .
near the spot where we found it, i observed the remnants of the hull of what appeared to have been a ship 's long boat .
having done all this in a neat speech, i took leave .
when his dominions were half depopulated, he summoned to his presence a thousand hale and light hearted friends from among the knights and dames of his court, and with these retired to the deep seclusion of one of his castellated abbeys .
mem: at , feet elevation the sky appears nearly black, and the stars are distinctly visible; while the sea does not seem convex as one might suppose but absolutely and most unequivocally concave .
she partly arose, and spoke, in an earnest low whisper, of sounds which she then heard, but which i could not hear of motions which she then saw, but which i could not perceive .
hitherto it had served me well, and i now resolved to make it avail me to the end .
yet my senses are bewildered, charmion, with the keenness of their perception of the new .
between the wheels and the wall where the hole lay there was barely room for my body yet i was desperate, and determined to persevere .
the result of my experiment with the old books, convinced me, in the first place, that  ''honesty is the best policy, '' and, in the second, that if i could not write better than mr  . dante, and the two blind men, and the rest of the old set, it would, at least, be a difficult matter to write worse.
this delicate little creature, in the trembling of her wasted fingers, in the livid hue of her lips, and in the slight hectic spot which tinged her otherwise leaden complexion, gave evident indications of a galloping consumption .
he had on a tight fitting parti striped dress, and his head was surmounted by the conical cap and bells .
when it reached the house it domesticated itself at once, and became immediately a great favorite with my wife .
in a minute afterward they relaxed, disclosing a bright line of the pearly teeth .
at such times i could not help remarking and admiring although from his rich ideality i had been prepared to expect it a peculiar analytic ability in dupin .
my own case differed in no important particular from those mentioned in medical books .
the earth was trampled, the bushes were broken, and there was every evidence of a violent struggle .
the scoundrel had joined his master in the country:  ''left s yesterday, for parts unknown did not say where or when be back so thought best to return letter, knowing your handwriting, and as how you is always, more or less, in a hurry .
i dreaded the jealousy of the editor and i had ascertained that he did not pay for original contributions .
the principle being discovered by which a machine can be made to play a game of chess, an extension of the same principle would enable it to win a game a farther extension would enable it to win all games that is, to beat any possible game of an antagonist .
why, not general john a    . b. c.? ''  ''smith? '' inquired miranda, musingly.
 ''for many minutes, '' continued the latter,  ''my sole sentiment my sole feeling was that of darkness and nonentity, with the consciousness of death .
her voice embraced three complete octaves, extending from the contralto d to the d upper soprano, and, though sufficiently powerful to have filled the san carlos, executed, with the minutest precision, every difficulty of vocal composition ascending and descending scales, cadences, or fiorituri .
he soon, however, recovered his composure, and an expression of determined malignancy settled upon his countenance, as he gave peremptory orders that a certain chamber should be immediately locked up, and the key placed in his own possession .
i began to murmur, to hesitate, to resist .
 ''there is a game of puzzles, '' he resumed,  ''which is played upon a map .
at the turn, the stream, sweeping backward, made an almost circular loop, so as to form a peninsula which was very nearly an island, and which included about the sixteenth of an acre .
i felt it, and, to say the truth, found not the slightest indication of fever .
he talked of eusebius and arianus; heresy and the council of nice; puseyism and consubstantialism; homousios and homouioisios .
i really thought he would have fallen into convulsions . ''
the night, as i said before, was dark; there was not a star to be seen; and a drizzling rain, falling at intervals, rendered us very uncomfortable .
knew madame l  . and her daughter.
the rooms were crowded to suffocation .
when we reach the latter, we feel an almost irresistible inclination to class it with spirit, or with nihility .
i had been now two years successfully busied in this way, when there came to the university a young parvenu nobleman, glendinning rich, said report, as herodes atticus his riches, too, as easily acquired .
this is indeed no dream charmion .
the style that was the thing .
i had arrived at that well known portion of the story where ethelred, the hero of the trist, having sought in vain for peaceable admission into the dwelling of the hermit, proceeds to make good an entrance by force .
what, for example, in this case of d , has been done to vary the principle of action?
that it has frequently, very frequently, so fallen will scarcely be denied by those who think .
many, however maintained that the exhibiter himself regulated the movements of the figure by mechanical means operating through the feet of the box .
in an instant afterward the fancy was confirmed .
upon my touching him, he immediately arose, purred loudly, rubbed against my hand, and appeared delighted with my notice .
that feeble thrill had vibrated itself into quiescence .
after that, the sound of the inquisitorial voices seemed merged in one dreamy indeterminate hum .
for the rest i have some explanation to make .
i have great reliance, however, on that extreme delicacy of discrimination, in matters appertaining to the rules of etiquette, for which you have been so long and so pre eminently distinguished .
here mr  . mill means, for example, that a tree must be either a tree or not a tree that it cannot be at the same time a tree and not a tree.
to say nothing of the stuffs placed on board in the forenoon by way of ballast, and not to mention the various ales and liqueurs shipped this evening at different sea ports, i have, at present, a full cargo of     'humming stuff' taken in and duly paid for at the sign of the 'jolly tar .'
i saw them writhe with a deadly locution .
i groaned in anguish at the pitiable spectacle .
slowly she glided along, and at length rounded the islet and re entered the region of light .
i went so far as to regret the loss of the animal, and to look about me, among the vile haunts which i now habitually frequented, for another pet of the same species, and of somewhat similar appearance, with which to supply its place .
i at once looked upon the figure of the animal as a kind of punning or hieroglyphical signature .
i am that very signora psyche zenobia, so justly celebrated as corresponding secretary to the  ''philadelphia, regular, exchange, tea, total, young, belles, lettres, universal, experimental, bibliographical, association, to, civilize, humanity . ''
 ''i must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side of the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it the larger they seemed .
why, we may get up a very thrilling bit of superstition upon this hint .
in the consideration of motive it fails; for two motives, each of a given value, have not, necessarily, a value when united, equal to the sum of their values apart .
to this he objected pleading haste in the first place, and, in the second, a very usual horror at the sight of a lunatic .
notwithstanding the obscurity which thus envelops the date of the foundation of vondervotteimittis, and the derivation of its name, there can be no doubt, as i said before, that it has always existed as we find it at this epoch .
 ''ha ha ha '' said his grace on the third day after his decease .
that was a nice bit of flummery, and went down the throats of the people delightfully .
each successive one is multiple evidence proof not added to proof, but multiplied by hundreds or thousands .
for wisdom, ask of the angels freely, that it may be given oinos .
the metal of the earl of ross 's is feet diameter; it is inches thick at the edges, and at the centre .
 ''and then, perhaps, this clos de vougeot is a little heady, you know a little strong you understand, eh? ''  ''to be sure, '' said i,  ''to be sure .
the bust of the general was unquestionably the finest bust i ever saw .
even about his age although i call him a young gentleman there was something which perplexed me in no little degree .
and these men the poets living and perishing amid the scorn of the  ''utilitarians '' of rough pedants, who arrogated to themselves a title which could have been properly applied only to the scorned these men, the poets, pondered piningly, yet not unwisely, upon the ancient days when our wants were not more simple than our enjoyments were keen days when mirth was a word unknown, so solemnly deep toned was happiness holy, august and blissful days, when blue rivers ran undammed, between hills unhewn, into far forest solitudes, primæval, odorous, and unexplored .
nothing, for example, is more difficult than to convince the merely general reader that the fact of sixes having been thrown twice in succession by a player at dice, is sufficient cause for betting the largest odds that sixes will not be thrown in the third attempt .
to speak the truth, i had no especial relish for such amusement at any time, and, at that particular moment, would most willingly have declined it; for the night was coming on, and i felt much fatigued with the exercise already taken; but i saw no mode of escape, and was fearful of disturbing my poor friend 's equanimity by a refusal .
if, indeed, the casting of large lenses were all that is required, man 's ingenuity would ultimately prove equal to the task, and we might have them of any size demanded .
the word  ''balderdash, '' as applied to the  ''oil of bob '' of the fly, i considered singularly pungent and appropriate .
pinxit availed himself of the opportunity to retouch, from a sketch taken upon the spot, his admirable painting of the  ''marsyas flayed alive . ''
the vibration of the pendulum was at right angles to my length .
i have scarcely anything to add .
that it is of a remotely ancient date cannot be doubted .
the automaton does not invariably win the game .
at this instant three sturdy waiters had just succeeded in depositing safely upon the table an enormous dish, or trencher, containing what i supposed to be the  ''monstrum horrendum, informe, ingens, cui lumen ademptum . ''
she has now him in hers since, being unaware that the letter is not in his possession, he will proceed with his exactions as if it was .
besides, his grace hated a scene de l 'omelette is himself again .
some of these, as he detailed them, interested and bewildered me; although, perhaps, the terms, and the general manner of the narration had their weight .
a drum in these hills was a thing unknown .
there was an air distingué pervading the whole man, which spoke of high breeding, and hinted at high birth .
but, as i stepped beneath the light of the censer, two circumstances of a startling nature attracted my attention .
he conquers all by assault .
his chief amusements were gunning and fishing, or sauntering along the beach and through the myrtles, in quest of shells or entomological specimens; his collection of the latter might have been envied by a swammerdamm .
now here, of course, the suspicion is not that, in consequence of these communications, or of the public attention by them directed, the articles were found by the boys; but the suspicion might and may well have been, that the articles were not before found by the boys, for the reason that the articles had not before been in the thicket; having been deposited there only at so late a period as at the date, or shortly prior to the date of the communications by the guilty authors of these communications themselves .
it is a thing very easily done, after all .
we, finally, lightened the box by removing two thirds of its contents, when we were enabled, with some trouble, to raise it from the hole .
letting go, then, his hold upon the rod, placing his feet securely against the wall, and springing boldly from it, he might have swung the shutter so as to close it, and, if we imagine the window open at the time, might even have swung himself into the room .
indeed, i now perceived that i had entirely overdone the business, and that the main consequences of the shock were yet to be experienced .
 ''all this, '' i said,  ''is exceedingly clear, and, although ingenious, still simple and explicit .
why, the absurd twattle is scarcely good enough for the          'hum drum,' the 'rowdy dow,' the 'goosetherumfoodle' things that are in the practice of publishing 'mother goose's melodies' as original lyrics .
affidavits of this character are readily made matter of mystification .
one or two smaller bouquets adorned the mantel, and late violets clustered about the open windows .
years years may pass away, but the memory of that epoch never .
having at length put my affairs in order, i took my seat very early one morning in the mail stage for , giving it to be understood, among my acquaintances, that business of the last importance required my immediate personal attendance in that city .
 ''piquant facts for similes .
but the condition with which it was coupled rendered hesitation, of course, a matter altogether out of the question .
i did n  't like de look oh de bug mouff, myself, no how, so i would n't take hold ob him wid my finger, but i cotch him wid a piece ob paper dat i found .
then he was perpetually kicking out his heels so so  ''  ''mr .
 ''you will say, however, that, in the second instance, there was no elopement as imagined .
upon this point i had been satisfied in my walk with you around the building .
if it were trebled, however, i could do no more than i have done . ''
i doubt if there were not a dozen gangs, such as described by madame deluc, in and about the vicinity of the barrière du roule at or about the period of this tragedy .
my senses were here and there at one and the same moment .
we are surely doomed to hover continually upon the brink of eternity, without taking a final plunge into the abyss .
with sentiments of perfect respect, your most humble servant, johann herman .
if you really wish me well, you will relieve this excitement . ''
it was open, with the key still in the door .
every one awaited, with heartfelt anxiety, the reply of the dignified smith .
 ''as the original design was to cross the british channel, and alight as near paris as possible, the voyagers had taken the precaution to prepare themselves with passports directed to all parts of the continent, specifying the nature of the expedition, as in the case of the nassau voyage, and entitling the adventurers to exemption from the usual formalities of office: unexpected events, however, rendered these passports superfluous .
he could not return if he would .
the fact in question is indeed the basis of the eye sore trade .
my heart grew sick on account of the dampness of the catacombs .
the whole feat did not occupy a minute .
you alone, habited in a white robe, passed in all directions musically about me .
he makes, in silence, a host of observations and inferences .
and this is the object to which the eyes of the old gentlemen are turned who sit in the leather bottomed arm chairs .
i have shown how it is that the body of a drowning man becomes specifically heavier than its bulk of water, and that he would not sink at all, except for the struggles by which he elevates his arms above the surface, and his gasps for breath while beneath the surface gasps which supply by water the place of the original air in the lungs .
i at length hit upon the following expedient, which, simple as it may seem, was hailed by me, at the moment of discovery, as an invention fully equal to that of the telescope, the steam engine, or the art of printing itself .
before i could recover my sight, the lady of my love had disappeared irreparably affronted at what she chose to consider my premeditated rudeness in passing her by ungreeted .
you will stand here just beneath the hole so .
the mansion was quite a fine one, and, i believe, furnished in good taste .
i stepped to the unobstructed casement, withdrew the nail with some difficulty and attempted to raise the sash .
we did every thing that rational humanity could suggest .
through a species of unutterable horror and awe, for which the language of mortality has no sufficiently energetic expression, i felt my heart cease to beat, my limbs grow rigid where i sat .
it is not the purpose of this work to do more than give in detail, a picture of mr  . landor 's residence as i found it.
i received a terrible beating after which i rolled under a sofa and lay still .
it will, perhaps, be said, in reply, that a machine such as we have described is altogether above comparison with the chess player of maelzel .
and i have now mentioned all the provinces in which even the most liberal understanding of the poetic sentiment has declared this sentiment capable of expatiating .
his cue, which was to perfect an imitation of myself, lay both in words and in actions; and most admirably did he play his part .
on my way i fell in with an immense populace, crowding through every avenue, all in the same direction, and exhibiting in every action the wildest excitement .
he disregarded the decora of mere fashion .
           ''let 'oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, send any future composition of like character to the 'hum drum,' the 'lollipop,' or the 'rowdy dow,' they will 'insert' it .
the greatest height ever reached by man was that of , feet, attained in the aeronautic expedition of messieurs gay lussac and biot .
true to its own character, my disorder revelled in the less important but more startling changes wrought in the physical frame of berenice in the singular and most appalling distortion of her personal identity .
how his sagacity first discovered at all that so petty a thing would vex me, is a question i never could solve; but, having discovered, he habitually practised the annoyance .
a dull shock like that of electricity pervaded my frame, and was followed by total loss of the idea of contact .
at this occupation i did a good deal; but, somehow, i was not quite satisfied, and so finally abandoned it .
but i am meek and expire with an humble heart .
one bound, and i had reached her feet shrinking from my touch, she let fall from her head, unloosened, the ghastly cerements which had confined it, and there streamed forth, into the rushing atmosphere of the chamber, huge masses of long and dishevelled hair; it was blacker than the raven wings of the midnight and now slowly opened the eyes of the figure which stood before me .
 ''the next point to be regarded was a matter of far greater importance .
the slip was eighteen inches wide, and therefore, although of muslin, would form a strong band when folded or rumpled longitudinally .
i can 't bear to hear innocent individuals abused and the way the whole town took to cursing tom dobson and bobby tompkins was really awful to hear .
and the struggles of the passionate wife were, to my astonishment, even more energetic than my own .
we then assigned to man an organ of alimentiveness, and this organ is the scourge with which the deity compels man, will i nill i, into eating .
one hands him the   ''times, '' another the  ''examiner '' and a third a  ''culley's new compendium of slang whang . ''
it was easier to tear a new slip from the petticoat .
a hint is the only answer which i am permitted to make .
it was the design of the journalist to say that, at whatever period of the day or night of sunday this murder was committed, it was improbable that the assassins would have ventured to bear the corpse to the river before midnight .
at this moment i felt a light hand placed upon my shoulder, and that ever remembered, low, damnable whisper within my ear .
indeed it is very damp .
it seems, however, that while digging in the centre of the emperors garden, which, you know, covers the whole island, some of the workmen unearthed a cubical and evidently chiseled block of granite, weighing several hundred pounds .
the shock of the descending mass struck her, consequently, in that portion of her frame which was already under water, and the inevitable result was to hurl me, with irresistible violence, upon the rigging of the stranger .
i knew very well that we were doomed, had we been ten times a ninety gun ship .
europe cannot produce anything so fine as this, my little regal cabinet .
it was one of profound melancholy of a phaseless and unceasing gloom .
how long it lasted of course, i know not; but when, once again, i unclosed my eyes, the objects around me were visible .
the application of this to your own case is obvious for i trust, miss psyche, that you will not neglect to kick for at least an hour and a half after you have been choked to death by that chicken bone .
it was altogether by means of magnetic remedies that he had succeeded in alleviating the acute pains of his patient; and this success had very naturally inspired the latter with a certain degree of confidence in the opinions from which the remedies had been educed .
spent a great part of the day in meditating upon an occurrence so extraordinary, but could find no means whatever of accounting for it .
nevertheless he is confirmed in his instinctive opinions by the voice of all his brethren .
upon the whole, i could not help thinking that there was much of the bizarre about every thing i saw but then the world is made up of all kinds of persons, with all modes of thought, and all sorts of conventional customs .
the pitiable condition of my dupe had thrown an air of embarrassed gloom over all; and, for some moments, a profound silence was maintained, during which i could not help feeling my cheeks tingle with the many burning glances of scorn or reproach cast upon me by the less abandoned of the party .
our friendship lasted, in this manner, for several years, during which my general temperament and character through the instrumentality of the fiend intemperance had i blush to confess it experienced a radical alteration for the worse .
he never had any nerves .
there were no attendants at home; they had absconded to make merry in honor of the time .
unreal even while i breathed there came to my nostrils the breath of the vapour of heated iron a suffocating odour pervaded the prison a deeper glow settled each moment in the eyes that glared at my agonies a richer tint of crimson diffused itself over the pictured horrors of blood .
ignoble souls de l 'omelette perished of an ortolan .
after some minutes, as if urged by curiosity to see if i was still looking, she gradually brought her face again around and again encountered my burning gaze .
having failed to fall, it was no part of the demon plan to hurl me into the abyss; and thus there being no alternative a different and a milder destruction awaited me .
i conceived it possible, in either instance, that they might thus be whirled up again to the level of the ocean, without undergoing the fate of those which had been drawn in more early, or absorbed more rapidly .
upon seeing the body, beauvais, after some hesitation, identified it as that of the perfumery girl .
but one autumnal evening, when the winds lay still in heaven, morella called me to her bedside .
every thing was made snug, alow and aloft; and as the wind steadily freshened, we lay to, at length, under spanker and foretopsail, both double reefed .
there was a mad disorder in my thoughts a tumult unappeasable .
perhaps it might be traced to the manner; yet here again i could not pretend to be positive .
amazement was, of course, predominant .
but, with severe labor and unremitting perseverance, i at length met with entire success in all my preparations .
it was a fearful page in the record my existence, written all over with dim, and hideous, and unintelligible recollections .
     '''il y a à parièr,' '' replied dupin, quoting from chamfort,  '''que toute idée publique, toute convention reçue est une sottise, car elle a convenue au plus grand nombre .'
i look for the man here in this room every moment .
but compared with her friend she is as a rush light to the evening star a glow worm to antares .
what madness now possessed me?
i struggled i gasped i died .
he has an object in view his pocket and yours .
for the first time during many hours or perhaps days i thought .
while you ascertain the validity of the affidavits, i will examine the newspapers more generally than you have as yet done .
from the rubbish of an old book stall, in a very remote corner of the town, i got together several antique and altogether unknown or forgotten volumes .
i knew the sound well .
   ''well, well, '' i said,  ''perhaps you have still i don't see them; '' and i handed him the paper without additional remark, not wishing to ruffle his temper; but i was much surprised at the turn affairs had taken; his ill humor puzzled me and, as for the drawing of the beetle, there were positively no antennæ visible, and the whole did bear a very close resemblance to the ordinary cuts of a death's head .
m  . valdemar spoke obviously in reply to the question i had propounded to him a few minutes before.
the impressions wrought on the observer were those of richness, warmth, color, quietude, uniformity, softness, delicacy, daintiness, voluptuousness, and a miraculous extremeness of culture that suggested dreams of a new race of fairies, laborious, tasteful, magnificent, and fastidious; but as the eye traced upward the myriad tinted slope, from its sharp junction with the water to its vague termination amid the folds of overhanging cloud, it became, indeed, difficult not to fancy a panoramic cataract of rubies, sapphires, opals, and golden onyxes, rolling silently out of the sky .
it had been long known that the air which encircled us was a compound of oxygen and nitrogen gases, in the proportion of twenty one measures of oxygen, and seventy nine of nitrogen in every one hundred of the atmosphere .
she died; and i, crushed into the very dust with sorrow, could no longer endure the lonely desolation of my dwelling in the dim and decaying city by the rhine .
i reply that the skull, or death 's head, is the well known emblem of the pirate .
it was no wonder that his condition terrified that it infected me .
the page put up the steps, closed the door, and resumed his station .
the word  ''husband '' seemed forever to use one of her own delicate expressions forever  ''on the tip of her tongue . ''
 ''notwithstanding the acclamation with which the discovery of this thicket was received by the press, and the unanimity with which it was supposed to indicate the precise scene of the outrage, it must be admitted that there was some very good reason for doubt .
this the deceased lady 's maid was easily prevailed on to do .
 ''suppose you detail, '' said i,  ''the particulars of your search . ''
in this latter science it is very usually untrue that the aggregated parts are equal to the whole .
next morning the population of nopolis were taken all aback by reading in    'the tea pot,' the following extraordinary leader: 'sx hx, jxhn hxw nxw?
the table was superbly set out .
in snatches, they learn something of the wisdom which is of good, and more of the mere knowledge which is of evil .
my memory flew back, oh, with what intensity of regret to ligeia, the beloved, the august, the beautiful, the entombed .
but it is by these deviations from the plane of the ordinary, that reason feels its way, if at all, in its search for the true .
and his brow was lofty with thought, and his eye wild with care; and, in the few furrows upon his cheek i read the fables of sorrow, and weariness, and disgust with mankind, and a longing after solitude .
my street inquiries about    ''the lovely widow, madame lalande, '' were supposed to refer to the younger lady, of course, and thus the conversation with the three gentlemen whom i encountered shortly after leaving talbot's hotel will be easily explained, as also their allusion to ninon de l'enclos .
and in sooth some who beheld the portrait spoke of its resemblance in low words, as of a mighty marvel, and a proof not less of the power of the painter than of his deep love for her whom he depicted so surpassingly well .
by authority of the king such districts were placed under ban, and all persons forbidden, under pain of death, to intrude upon their dismal solitude .
a housekeeper in want of a sofa, for instance, is seen to go in and out of several cabinet warehouses .
this young gentleman was of an excellent indeed of an illustrious family, but, by a variety of untoward events, had been reduced to such poverty that the energy of his character succumbed beneath it, and he ceased to bestir himself in the world, or to care for the retrieval of his fortunes .
 ''i presume you looked to the mirrors, between the boards and the plates, and you probed the beds and the bed clothes, as well as the curtains and carpets . ''
ligeia had brought me far more, very far more than ordinarily falls to the lot of mortals .
her eyes her magnificent eyes, had not belied her noble heart .
anaxagoras, it will be remembered, maintained that snow is black, and this i have since found to be the case .
it remains for a more profound analysis than the world has yet seen, fully to investigate and express them .
indeed this matter is susceptible of a mathematical demonstration, a priori .
the gloomy and dreary grandeur of the building, the almost savage aspect of the domain, the many melancholy and time honored memories connected with both, had much in unison with the feelings of utter abandonment which had driven me into that remote and unsocial region of the country .
he treads on your corns .
 ''sir '' said i to him,  ''you are a baboon . ''
it was seen, that even at three per cent, the annual income of the inheritance amounted to no less than thirteen millions and five hundred thousand dollars; which was one million and one hundred and twenty five thousand per month; or thirty six thousand, nine hundred and eighty six per day, or one thousand five hundred and forty one per hour, or six and twenty dollars for every minute that flew .
confused me in no little degree .
it entered the lungs, and in a few days killed him . ''
was that was that was that rouge?
the opinion of bob, the devil who kept dark about his having   'x ed the paragrab', did not meet with so much attention as i think it deserved, although it was very openly and very fearlessly expressed .
it might have been done under the act for the  ''prevention of cruelty to animals . ''
mought ventur out leetle way pon de limb by myself, dat 's true  . ''  ''by yourself what do you mean? ''  ''why i mean de bug.
this complexion, the      'hitch' in the bandage, and the 'sailor's knot,' with which the bonnet ribbon is tied, point to a seaman .
that mrs  . lackobreath should admire anything so dissimilar to myself was a natural and necessary evil.
as our distance from the wreck rapidly increased, the madman for as such only could we regard him was seen to emerge from the companion way, up which by dint of strength that appeared gigantic, he dragged, bodily, the oblong box .
pest spirits, plague goblins, and fever demons, were the popular imps of mischief; and tales so blood chilling were hourly told, that the whole mass of forbidden buildings was, at length, enveloped in terror as in a shroud, and the plunderer himself was often scared away by the horrors his own depreciations had created; leaving the entire vast circuit of prohibited district to gloom, silence, pestilence, and death .
this latter i felt not saw .
maelzel, having now rolled the machine around, lifted up the drapery of the turk, opened the doors in his back and thigh, and shown his trunk to be full of machinery, brings the whole back into its original position, and closes the doors .
i mean the man who took himself for a bottle of champagne, and always went off with a pop and a fizz, in this fashion . ''
in the brief existence of ellison, i fancy, that i have seen refuted the dogma that in man 's physical and spiritual nature, lies some hidden principle, the antagonist of bliss .
and the dress had trimmings of green agraffas, and seven graceful flounces of the orange colored auricula .
this opinion, in its general form, was that of the sentience of all vegetable things .
 ''stay a moment i see a vast hubbub in the hippodrome; what is the meaning of it, i beseech you? '' that? oh, nothing the noble and free citizens of epidaphne being, as they declare, well satisfied of the faith, valor, wisdom, and divinity of their king, and having, moreover, been eye witnesses of his late superhuman agility, do think it no more than their duty to invest his brows in addition to the poetic crown with the wreath of victory in the footrace a wreath which it is evident he must obtain at the celebration of the next olympiad, and which, therefore, they now give him in advance .
and herein lies, really, the assumption of which i complain .
for this they assign the very good reason that they do not believe there is anything at all on the other side .
but perhaps you do not comprehend me .
what is made to adjust itself, must of necessity require foreign adjustment but rarely .
they attired me for the coffin three or four dark figures which flitted busily to and fro .
 ''then there is the tone elevated, diffusive, and interjectional .
that the public were misled, even for an instant, merely proves the gross ignorance which is so generally prevalent upon subjects of an astronomical nature .
by this time it began to grow dark, and i directed my steps toward home .
 ''ring de pell; '' he replied, attempting a grin with his little villanous mouth .
i breathed the free air of heaven .
lower than her expectations .
as for the angel, he evinced his sense of my assault by giving me two or three hard consecutive raps upon the forehead as before .
 ''and what means are ours, of attaining the truth?
 ''i may state the system, then, in general terms, as one in which the patients were menages humored .
i thought upon other subjects than death .
 ''never mind the sky, but attend to what i say .
it is well known to most of my fellow citizens, that for the period of forty years i continued to occupy the little square brick building, at the head of the alley called sauerkraut, in which i resided at the time of my disappearance .
he handed me the volume and asked me to look over some portion of it .
what shall we first seek here?
with a shriek i bounded to the table, and grasped the box that lay upon it .
i showed him the insect, and he begged me to let him take it to the fort .
from a fourth, which i recollect was also the work of a blind man, i selected a page or two all about  ''hail '' and  ''holy light ''; and although a blind man has no business to write about light, still the verses were sufficiently good in their way .
meantime, the excitement increased hourly .
write you can get them that way at tortoni    's write, if you please  ''here is a nice little latin phrase, and rare too, one can't be too recherche or brief in one's latin, it's getting so common ignoratio elenchi .
for example: no very long while ago, a singular circumstance occurred in this very house .
immediately, he bolted out behind, and turning down an alley, was out of sight in the twinkling of an eye .
they did not arouse me from my slumber for i was wide awake when i screamed but they restored me to the full possession of my memory .
but now what treasure does the world hold what threat of vengeance could it hold out which would have power to urge the return of that lonely murderer over that toilsome and perilous path, to the thicket and its blood chilling recollections?
i assented; adding that i had not yet concluded my third lustrum .
and now, while i write, a recollection flashes upon me that i have never known the paternal name of her who was my friend and my betrothed, and who became the partner of my studies, and finally the wife of my bosom .
the stream took a thousand turns, so that at no moment could its gleaming surface be seen for a greater distance than a furlong .
all my perceptions were purely sensual .
 ''the description of the digits, '' said i, as i made an end of reading,  ''is in exact accordance with this drawing .
 ''by the by, pratt, kate has us completely .
oh, quite a hero perfect desperado no hearts, mr . tattle?
i reached out my hand, and it fell heavily upon something damp and hard .
   ''now, if, in place of the unknown characters, we leave blank spaces, or substitute dots, we read thus: the tree thr    ...h the, when the word 'through' makes itself evident at once.
like them, he has a watch, but he carries his watch in his pocket .
i determined to depart, yet live to leave the world, yet continue to exist in short, to drop enigmas, i resolved, let what would ensue, to force a passage, if i could, to the moon .
there were some foils upon a table some points also .
this wall is of one continuous rock, and has been formed by cutting perpendicularly the once rugged precipice of the stream 's southern bank, but no trace of the labor has been suffered to remain .
he then asked me, suddenly, if i had observed any thing peculiar at the scene of the atrocity .
it was distinctly proved that no apathy, such as was imagined, existed; that the old lady was exceedingly feeble, and so agitated as to be unable to attend to any duty, that st   . eustache, so far from receiving the news coolly, was distracted with grief, and bore himself so frantically, that m. beauvais prevailed upon a friend and relative to take charge of him, and prevent his attending the examination at the disinterment.
we can only account for its absence by supposing the murderer to have neglected the precaution of supplying himself with it before pushing off .
  ''der teufel '' groaned they,  ''dirteen dirteen mein gott, it is dirteen o'clock '' why attempt to describe the terrible scene which ensued?
i bade the minister good morning, and took my departure at once, leaving a gold snuff box upon the table .
i say  ''amused '' and scarcely know how to explain myself .
the winding up is inessential to the operations of the automaton, and is performed with the design of exciting in the spectators the false idea of mechanism  . .
  ''captain pratt, you must come and spend the evening with us to morrow you and smitherton you can tell us all about your voyage, and we'll have a game of whist and  '' pratt .
the old lady and her daughter seemed on good terms very affectionate towards each other .
once adopting the more charitable interpretation, we shall find no difficulty in comprehending the rose in the key hole; the          'marie' upon the slate; the 'elbowing the male relatives out of the way;' the 'aversion to permitting them to see the body;' the caution given to madame b , that she must hold no conversation with the gendarme until his return beauvais'; and, lastly, his apparent determination 'that nobody should have anything to do with the proceedings except himself .'
should there be nothing wrong here, however, we will dismiss st  . eustache from our investigations.
at the same time my forehead seemed bathed in a clammy vapor, and the peculiar smell of decayed fungus arose to my nostrils .
b  ., for some years past, has been subject to neuralgia, which has often threatened to terminate fatally; but this can be regarded only as the mediate cause of his decease.
are these green tombs theirs?
all fum fudge was in an uproar .
it appeared to me not greatly dissimilar to the extreme quiescence of him, who, having slumbered long and profoundly, lying motionless and fully prostrate in a midsummer noon, begins to steal slowly back into consciousness, through the mere sufficiency of his sleep, and without being awakened by external disturbances .
of my own thoughts it is folly to speak .
the error is obvious .
now write    '''aussi tendre que zaire' as tender as zaire french .
kepler admitted that his three laws were guessed at these three laws of all laws which led the great inglitch mathematician to his principle, the basis of all physical principle to go behind which we must enter the kingdom of metaphysics .
the head was very slightly elevated .
i would go to the fountain head .
each animal if you will take the pains to observe, is following, very quietly, in the wake of its master .
his greatest disciples were one neuclid, and one cant .
we dug very steadily for two hours .
they say that i spoke with a distinct enunciation, but with marked emphasis and passionate hurry, as if in dread of interruption before concluding the brief, but pregnant sentences that consigned me to the hangman and to hell .
she was attired in deep mourning, and excited in my bosom a feeling of mingled respect, interest, and admiration .
the slightest pressure upon a long lever that extended far into the tomb would cause the iron portal to fly back .
he here paused abruptly, bent his head to his bosom, and seemed to listen to a sound which i could not hear .
it was a solid structure, with massy door, sooner than open which in the absence of the  ''dominic, '' we would all have willingly perished by the peine forte et dure .
in the meantime, he continued his talk .
extremely rapid decrease in the diameter of the earth .
we saw each other again and again .
i was not long in hesitation .
the corpse, i repeat, stirred, and now more vigorously than before .
the trees were dark in color, and mournful in form and attitude, wreathing themselves into sad, solemn, and spectral shapes that conveyed ideas of mortal sorrow and untimely death .
the heat rapidly increased, and once again i looked up, shuddering as with a fit of the ague .
the vault in which we placed it and which had been so long unopened that our torches, half smothered in its oppressive atmosphere, gave us little opportunity for investigation was small, damp, and entirely without means of admission for light; lying, at great depth, immediately beneath that portion of the building in which was my own sleeping apartment .
why should that lady blush to this demand there is no answer except that, having left, in the eager haste and terror of a mother 's heart, the privacy of her own boudoir, she has neglected to enthral her tiny feet in their slippers, and utterly forgotten to throw over her venetian shoulders that drapery which is their due .
all the phrases did not fit, as we say in the anglo saxon .
it is formed of a light wicker, and is wonderfully strong, for so frail looking a machine .
it is impossible utterly impossible to form any adequate idea of the horror of my situation .
if two medallions are put into the drawer together, an answer is returned only to the lower one .
 ''it may appear strange, but now, when we were in the very jaws of the gulf, i felt more composed than when we were only approaching it .
be wilson what he might, this, at least, was but the veriest of affectation, or of folly .
the oldest man in the borough can remember not the slightest difference in the appearance of any portion of it; and, indeed, the very suggestion of such a possibility is considered an insult .
at high noon of the night in which she departed, beckoning me, peremptorily, to her side, she bade me repeat certain verses composed by herself not many days before .
in displaying anxiety for the breath of which he was at present so willing to get rid, might i not lay myself open to the exactions of his avarice?
they did not cease, however, importuning me with questions as to what i intended to do with all this apparatus, and expressed much dissatisfaction at the terrible labor i made them undergo .
of all these things we know nothing .
in the bottom of the valley itself for it must be borne in mind that the vegetation hitherto mentioned grew only on the cliffs or hillsides were to be seen three insulated trees .
i say to my surprise, for, although he had always yielded his person freely to my experiments, he had never before given me any tokens of sympathy with what i did .
in a book was published at dresden by m    . i. f. freyhere in which another endeavor was made to unravel the mystery.
no arm is without hair .
but alas the real sleepers were fewer, by many millions, than those who slumbered not at all; and there was a feeble struggling; and there was a general sad unrest; and from out the depths of the countless pits there came a melancholy rustling from the garments of the buried .
you have often observed the profound self cognizance evinced by the sleep waker the extensive knowledge he displays upon all points relating to the mesmeric condition itself; and from this self cognizance may be deduced hints for the proper conduct of a catechism . ''
this would look erudite and and and frank .
w  . was a little indisposed, and would decline coming on board until to morrow, at the hour of sailing. ''
unsheathing my rapier, i began to grope with it about the recess: but the thought of an instant reassured me .
they would appear to be walking, with heels up and head down, in the manner of flies on a ceiling .
the sense of falling had ceased; and the motion of the vessel seemed much as it had been before, while in the belt of foam, with the exception that she now lay more along .
at each end of its axis this screw is supported by pillars of hollow brass tube descending from the hoop .
now, lest i should be supposed more of a madman than i actually am, i will detail, as well as i am able, the considerations which led me to believe that an achievement of this nature, although without doubt difficult, and incontestably full of danger, was not absolutely, to a bold spirit, beyond the confines of the possible .
my confusion of mind prevented me from observing that i began my tour with the wall to the left, and ended it with the wall to the right .
an irrepressible tremor gradually pervaded my frame; and, at length, there sat upon my very heart an incubus of utterly causeless alarm .
madame lalande, i had been told, was a parisian had lately arrived from paris might she not suddenly return?
von kempelen, however, is by no means   'a misanthrope,' in appearance, at least, whatever he may be in fact .
the only alteration in the ms .
it is impossible to say how first the idea entered my brain; but once conceived, it haunted me day and night .
in about fifteen minutes, another and less reasonable bill is handed him by one who soon makes it evident that the first collector was a diddler, and the original collection a diddle .
sir, if that man was not a frog, i can only observe that it is a pity he was not .
the whole of this mechanism that is to say all the mechanism essential to the machine is most probably contained within the little cupboard of about six inches in breadth partitioned off at the right the spectators ' right of the main compartment .
at the end of a week he placed before me the following extracts:  ''about three years and a half ago, a disturbance very similar to the present, was caused by the disappearance of this same marie rogêt, from the parfumerie of monsieur le blanc, in the palais royal .
 ''there are, properly, '' he writes,  ''but two styles of landscape gardening, the natural and the artificial .
a few words, in explanation, will here be necessary for such of our readers as are not conversant with the details of aerostation .
and then i scrutinized, with a minute scrutiny, the forms, and the methods, and the leading traits of his impertinent supervision .
i wedded; nor dreaded the curse i had invoked; and its bitterness was not visited upon me .
when i considered all these particulars, i doubted not for a moment that heat had been the agent in bringing to light, upon the parchment, the skull which i saw designed upon it .
but, once upon a time, a certain rich miser conceived the design of spunging upon this abernethy for a medical opinion .
i observed that his name was carded upon three state rooms; and, upon again referring to the list of passengers, i found that he had engaged passage for himself, wife, and two sisters his own .
i was, just at that epoch, in one of those moody frames of mind which make a man abnormally inquisitive about trifles: and i confess, with shame, that i busied myself in a variety of ill bred and preposterous conjectures about this matter of the supernumerary state room .
i alone fed him, and he attended me wherever i went about the house .
with such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion .
the artificial style has as many varieties as there are different tastes to gratify .
this plainly shows the bottom to consist of craggy rocks, among which they are whirled to and fro .
we painted and read together; or i listened, as if in a dream, to the wild improvisations of his speaking guitar .
i well remember, among others, the treatise of the noble italian, coelius secundus curio,    ''de amplitudine beati regni dei; '' st  . austin's great work, the  ''city of god; '' and tertullian's  ''de carne christi, '' in which the paradoxical sentence  ''mortuus est dei filius; credible est quia ineptum est: et sepultus resurrexit; certum est quia impossibile est, '' occupied my undivided time, for many weeks of laborious and fruitless investigation.
a diddler may thus be regarded as a banker in petto a  ''financial operation, '' as a diddle at brobdignag .
i revelled in recollections of her purity, of her wisdom, of her lofty, her ethereal nature, of her passionate, her idolatrous love .
we had passed through walls of piled bones, with casks and puncheons intermingling, into the inmost recesses of the catacombs .
when the automaton is about to move a piece, a distinct motion is observable just beneath the left shoulder, and which motion agitates in a slight degree, the drapery covering the front of the left shoulder .
i saw clearly the doom which had been prepared for me, and congratulated myself upon the timely accident by which i had escaped .
the ultimate life is the full design .
upon examining it, many excoriations were perceived, no doubt occasioned by the violence with which it had been thrust up and disengaged .
and is it therefore that he has never thus suffered?
the atmosphere, for example, impels the electric principle, while the electric principle permeates the atmosphere .
ise heerd bout dem goole bugs fore dis . ''  ''but how do you know he dreams about gold? ''  ''how i know?
parachutes and rail roads man traps and spring guns our steam boats are upon every sea, and the nassau balloon packet is about to run regular trips fare either way only twenty pounds sterling between london and timbuctoo .
many attempts had been made to set aside this singular bequest; their ex post facto character rendered them abortive; but the attention of a jealous government was aroused, and a legislative act finally obtained, forbidding all similar accumulations .
this done, a few more of the loops were unfastened from the rim, a farther portion of the cloth introduced, and the disengaged loops then connected with their proper buttons .
she had now partially recovered, however, and took the vessel herself, while i sank upon an ottoman near me, with my eyes fastened upon her person .
it was but just now that i passed directly before the eyes of the mate it was no long while ago that i ventured into the captain 's own private cabin, and took thence the materials with which i write, and have written .
but my efforts were fruitless .
i at once offered to purchase it of the landlord; but this person made no claim to it knew nothing of it had never seen it before .
 ''the amontillado '' ejaculated my friend, not yet recovered from his astonishment .
my head grovelled in the ashes of an extinguished fire, while my feet reposed upon the wreck of a small table, overthrown, and amid the fragments of a miscellaneous dessert, intermingled with a newspaper, some broken glass and shattered bottles, and an empty jug of the schiedam kirschenwasser .
 ''who can he be? '' said mrs  . bas bleu.
their sides sloped from the water 's edge at an angle of some forty five degrees, and they were clothed from base to summit not a perceptible point escaping in a drapery of the most gorgeous flower blossoms; scarcely a green leaf being visible among the sea of odorous and fluctuating color .
i have spoken to you, oinos, as to a child of the fair earth which lately perished of impulses upon the atmosphere of the earth .
 ''whose name is davy jones '' ejaculated tarpaulin, helping the lady by his side to a skull of liqueur, and pouring out a second for himself .
what would be the result of a total extraction of the nitrogen?
the most wonderful the most ingenious and let me add, mr    . mr. thompson, i believe, is your name let me add, i say, the most useful the most truly useful mechanical contrivances, are daily springing up like mushrooms, if i may so express myself, or, more figuratively, like ah grasshoppers like grasshoppers, mr. thompson about us and ah ah ah around us '' thompson, to be sure, is not my name; but it is needless to say that i left general smith with a heightened interest in the man, with an exalted opinion of his conversational powers, and a deep sense of the valuable privileges we enjoy in living in this age of mechanical invention.
my view downward was also considerably impeded by the dense atmosphere in the vicinity of the surface being loaded with clouds, between whose masses i could only now and then obtain a glimpse of the earth itself .
i can just remember the titles of some of the works .
how at least shall we distinguish its shadows from those of the tomb?
this being so, they could not have refastened the sashes from the inside, as they were found fastened; the consideration which put a stop, through its obviousness, to the scrutiny of the police in this quarter .
therein, he has dreamed of flames and suffocation of mountains upon mountains of pelion upon ossa .
had the routine of our life at this place been known to the world, we should have been regarded as madmen although, perhaps, as madmen of a harmless nature .
i had been long in the habit of mesmerizing the person in question, mr  . vankirk, and the usual acute susceptibility and exaltation of the mesmeric perception had supervened.
i pondered upon all this frivolity until my teeth were on edge .
it is only left for us to prove that these apparent   'impossibilities' are, in reality, not such .
eleonora was the name of my cousin .
still, i was absolutely fascinated, and could not withdraw it, even for an instant .
it follows, that the desire to be well must be excited simultaneously with any principle which shall be merely a modification of combativeness, but in the case of that something which i term perverseness, the desire to be well is not only not aroused, but a strongly antagonistical sentiment exists .
the singular being who had so disastrously exposed me, had been muffled, i remembered, in a cloak; and none had been worn at all by any of the members of our party with the exception of myself .
for my own part, i soon found a dislike to it arising within me .
the dutchman maintains it to have been that of a frenchman; but we find it stated that   'not understanding french this witness was examined through an interpreter .'
that among them we should look for the agency of the threatened fiery destruction had been for many years considered an inadmissible idea .
it was an opera night, and the bills presented a very rare attraction, so that the house was excessively crowded .
it is therefore evident that, ascend as high as we may, we cannot, literally speaking, arrive at a limit beyond which no atmosphere is to be found .
 ''but there are not wanting other grounds for the suspicion that the articles were placed in the thicket with the view of diverting attention from the real scene of the outrage .
in truth, it was a dream like and spirit soothing place, that venerable old town .
these, like the over largely lettered signs and placards of the street, escape observation by dint of being excessively obvious; and here the physical oversight is precisely analogous with the moral inapprehension by which the intellect suffers to pass unnoticed those considerations which are too obtrusively and too palpably self evident .
in the rash pursuit of this object, he rushes into mere assumption at the outset .
rabble, indeed why these are the noble and free citizens of epidaphne beasts, did you say? take care that you are not overheard .
not only had he a more than ordinary dislike to quackery, but he was morbidly afraid of appearing empirical; so that, however fully he might have been convinced that he was on the right track in the matter now in question, he would never have spoken out, until he had every thing ready for the most practical demonstration .
there is no knowing what one eats, thought i to myself, at the tables of these people of the province .
as ill luck would have it, i alit upon my feet within the vehicle .
i soon, however, grew ashamed of my weakness, and proceeded .
 ''why, papa, captain pratt went round cape horn, and captain smitherton doubled the cape of good hope . ''
the north wing, i now saw, was a bed chamber, its door opened into the parlor .
the silk on the parasol was strong, but the threads of it were run together within .
stay here to night, and i will send jup down for it at sunrise .
he has also a peculiar shuffle with his feet, calculated to induce suspicion of collusion with the machine in minds which are more cunning than sagacious .
wearied at heart with anxieties which had their origin in the general turmoil and decay, i succumbed to the fierce fever .
down certainly, relentlessly down it vibrated within three inches of my bosom i struggled violently, furiously, to free my left arm .
i had taken but few turns in this manner, when a light step on an adjoining staircase arrested my attention .
massa will cotch him fuss, but had for to let him go gin mighty quick, i tell you den was de time he must ha got de bite .
and, now, let me beg your notice to the highly artificial arrangement of the articles .
most of these were young men of wealth, of high connection, of great family pride, and all alive with an exaggerated sense of honor .
in its impalpable gaseous character we clearly perceived the consummation of fate .
far away to the northward i perceived a thin, white, and exceedingly brilliant line, or streak, on the edge of the horizon, and i had no hesitation in supposing it to be the southern disk of the ices of the polar sea .
the business, however, has grown ungenteel, and that of a politician don 't pay .
a mutiny has been the result; and, as is usual upon such occasions, all human efforts will be of no avail in quelling the mob .
the magician of m  . maillardet is also worthy of notice.
the women, too, it appears, were oddly deformed by a natural protuberance of the region just below the small of the back although, most unaccountably, this deformity was looked upon altogether in the light of a beauty .
the title of mr   . b.   's admirable poem is the 'oil of bob' a somewhat unfortunate name, by the by, as some contemptible vagabond connected with the penny press has already disgusted the town with a great deal of drivel upon the same topic.
with her left she pointed downward to a curiously fashioned vase .
if the drawer is shut without a medallion being put into it, the magician rises, consults his book, shakes his head, and resumes his seat .
as the ape approached the casement with its mutilated burden, the sailor shrank aghast to the rod, and, rather gliding than clambering down it, hurried at once home dreading the consequences of the butchery, and gladly abandoning, in his terror, all solicitude about the fate of the ourang outang .
or, if even that, could i withstand its pressure?
i dreaded the first glance at objects around me .
retrograding, they found no difficulty, from a given effect, under given conditions, in determining the value of the original impulse .
the author of the pamphlet alluded to by brewster, mentions it, but acknowledges his inability to account for it .
no one had thought of even attempting to save any thing more .
they had, so they said, as much as they could do to read about the revolutions, and keep up with the march of intellect and the spirit of the age .
i was not surprised, however, to perceive that he had long made up his mind on a point which had occasioned so much discussion to his friends .
to diddle is his destiny .
but for a long time i exerted myself in vain .
upon second thoughts, you had better kick him, or cane him, or something of that kind . ''
to all appearance it had been temporarily and very lately abandoned .
the arms were bent over on the chest and were rigid .
i did not care, however, to contest the point with him .
the inhabitants of the island, and of the fort, thronged out, of course, to see the balloon; but it was with the greatest difficulty that any one could be made to credit the actual voyage the crossing of the atlantic .
in fact, as regards the more important knowledge, i do believe that she is invariably superficial .
i foamed i raved i swore i swung the chair upon which i had been sitting, and grated it upon the boards, but the noise arose over all and continually increased .
the last hour for action is at hand .
 ''we are possibly not giving this matter a fair trial, '' he said .
 ''name it '' i exclaimed with an energy that had nearly drawn upon us the observation of the company, and restrained by their presence alone from throwing myself impetuously at her feet .
p   . s. we are consumed with anxiety to probe the mystery which envelops the evident pseudonym  ''snob. ''
i regarded her with an utter astonishment not unmingled with dread and yet i found it impossible to account for such feelings .
let us proceed in a body to the borough, and restore the ancient order of things in vondervotteimittiss by ejecting that little fellow from the steeple .
out burst a deluge of liquor so fierce so impetuous so overwhelming that the room was flooded from wall to wall the loaded table was overturned the tressels were thrown upon their backs the tub of punch into the fire place and the ladies into hysterics .
his teeth, however, were like pearl, and his large full eyes were deliciously white .
the neighborhood is secluded particularly so .
 ''by this time the first fury of the tempest had spent itself, or perhaps we did not feel it so much, as we scudded before it, but at all events the seas, which at first had been kept down by the wind, and lay flat and frothing, now got up into absolute mountains .
this arm was gradually widened until it attained its present breadth a mile .
again, quite a respectable diddle is this .
its bottom, which could be distinctly seen, consisted altogether, of pebbles brilliantly white .
for example, he has been known to open, first of all, the drawer but he never opens the main compartment without first closing the back door of cupboard no   . he never opens the main compartment without first pulling out the drawer he never shuts the drawer without first shutting the main compartment he never opens the back door of cupboard no. while the main compartment is open and the game of chess is never commenced until the whole machine is closed.
our general routine was this: pompey, having rolled himself well in the mud, sat upon end at the shop door, until he observed a dandy approaching in bright boots .
he appeared extremely uneasy, looking anxiously around him, fluttering his wings, and making a loud cooing noise, but could not be persuaded to trust himself from off the car .
the most important portion in fact, the soul of the whole business, is yet to be attended to i allude to the filling up .
i reapproached the wall .
when, therefore, mr  . preston reached me that which he had picked up upon the floor, and near the folding doors of the apartment, it was with an astonishment nearly bordering upon terror, that i perceived my own already hanging on my arm, where i had no doubt unwittingly placed it, and that the one presented me was but its exact counterpart in every, in even the minutest possible particular.
of the bruises upon the body of madame l 'espanaye i do not speak .
what of it there remained i will not attempt to define, or even to describe; yet all was not lost .
he received the paper very peevishly, and was about to crumple it, apparently to throw it in the fire, when a casual glance at the design seemed suddenly to rivet his attention .
 ''fool '' said the second .
 ''i am about to leave the country for some years, and i cannot conscientiously retain this large amount in my possession .
and, furthermore, it is exceedingly improbable that any villains who had committed such a murder as is here supposed, would have thrown the body in without weight to sink it, when such a precaution could have so easily been taken . ''
the print which merely falls in with ordinary opinion however well founded this opinion may be earns for itself no credit with the mob .
methought i was immersed in a cataleptic trance of more than usual duration and profundity .
a watch 's minute hand moves more quickly than did mine .
the fury of a demon instantly possessed me .
 ''no more no more no more, '' such language holds the solemn sea to the sands upon the shore, shall bloom the thunder blasted tree, or the stricken eagle soar now all my hours are trances; and all my nightly dreams are where the dark eye glances, and where thy footstep gleams, in what ethereal dances, by what italian streams .
these latter theorize .
the fact then of irregularity, when regularity might have been so easily attained, goes to prove that regularity is unimportant to the action of the automaton in other words, that the automaton is not a pure machine  . .
there is no immateriality it is a mere word .
during the now brief interval of darkness a meteoric stone again passed in my vicinity, and the frequency of these phenomena began to occasion me much apprehension .
he emptied it at a breath .
at length, in reading some french memoirs, i found an account of a nearly fatal illness that occurred to madame pilau, through the agency of a candle accidentally poisoned .
for i admit the opinion of copernicus, who maintains that it never ceases to revolve from the east to the west, not upon the poles of the equinoctial, commonly called the poles of the world, but upon those of the zodiac, a question of which i propose to speak more at length here after, when i shall have leisure to refresh my memory in regard to the astrology which i learned at salamanca when young, and have since forgotten . ''
through the gray of the early morning among the trellised shadows of the forest at noonday and in the silence of my library at night she had flitted by my eyes, and i had seen her not as the living and breathing berenice, but as the berenice of a dream; not as a being of the earth, earthy, but as the abstraction of such a being; not as a thing to admire, but to analyze; not as an object of love, but as the theme of the most abstruse although desultory speculation .
 ''i see, '' said he, perceiving that i could not immediately reconcile myself to the bienseance of so singular a welcome  ''i see you are astonished at my apartment at my statues my pictures my originality of conception in architecture and upholstery absolutely drunk, eh, with my magnificence?
in fact, we made it a matter of desperate speculation the risk of life standing instead of labor, and courage answering for capital .
its evidence the evidence of the sentience was to be seen, he said, and i here started as he spoke, in the gradual yet certain condensation of an atmosphere of their own about the waters and the walls .
but the memory of past sorrow is it not present joy?
his plan referred altogether to sensation .
and do you not see also, that such recherchés nooks for concealment are adapted only for ordinary occasions, and would be adopted only by ordinary intellects; for, in all cases of concealment, a disposal of the article concealed a disposal of it in this recherché manner, is, in the very first instance, presumable and presumed; and thus its discovery depends, not at all upon the acumen, but altogether upon the mere care, patience, and determination of the seekers; and where the case is of importance or, what amounts to the same thing in the policial eyes, when the reward is of magnitude, the qualities in question have never been known to fail .
this motion invariably precedes, by about two seconds, the movement of the arm itself and the arm never, in any instance, moves without this preparatory motion in the shoulder .
it was in devoting his gigantic wealth to the practical embodiment of a vision such as this in the free exercise in the open air, which resulted from personal direction of his plans in the continuous and unceasing object which these plans afford in the contempt of ambition which it enabled him more to feel than to affect and, lastly, it was in the companionship and sympathy of a devoted wife, that ellison thought to find, and found, an exemption from the ordinary cares of humanity, with a far greater amount of positive happiness than ever glowed in the rapt day dreams of de stael .
on comparing the intervals between the successive arrivals of encke  's comet at its perihelion, after giving credit, in the most exact manner, for all the disturbances due to the attractions of the planets, it appears that the periods are gradually diminishing; that is to say, the major axis of the comet's ellipse is growing shorter, in a slow but perfectly regular decrease .
forth from the well they hurried in fresh troops .
he died gloriously while inhaling gas levique flatu corrupitur, like the fama pudicitae in hieronymus .
in a few seconds he had uncovered a mass of human bones, forming two complete skeletons, intermingled with several buttons of metal, and what appeared to be the dust of decayed woollen .
having done this, he issued from his state room, fully dressed, and proceeded to call mrs   . w. from hers.
 ''as for these murders, let us enter into some examinations for ourselves, before we make up an opinion respecting them .
 ''proceed '' he at length said hoarsely to bedloe .
mr  . ellison became neither musician nor poet; although no man lived more profoundly enamored both of music and the muse.
had heard it said among the neighbors that madame l  . told fortunes did not believe it.
for pluto, however, i still retained sufficient regard to restrain me from maltreating him, as i made no scruple of maltreating the rabbits, the monkey, or even the dog, when by accident, or through affection, they came in my way .
one of these was the pulpit of the  ''classical '' usher, one of the  ''english and mathematical . ''
 ''thus, may it please your excellencies, i have detailed some, though by no means all, the considerations which led me to form the project of a lunar voyage .
 ''you are a drunken vagabond, '' said i,  ''and i shall ring the bell and order my footman to kick you into the street . ''
the silver cord was not for ever loosed, nor the golden bowl irreparably broken .
he made, however, no attempt to descend as i had expected, but struggled with great vehemence to get back, uttering at the same time very shrill and piercing cries .
he did not turn back a second time, but stepped up with decision, and rapped at the door of our chamber .
 ''you jest, '' he exclaimed, recoiling a few paces .
i called again  ''fortunato '' no answer still .
i turned up my nose, and i spoke of myself .
i observed, too, that very few of the dresses were well made or, at least, that very few of them fitted the wearers .
after feeling the pulse and applying a mirror to the lips, he requested me to speak to the sleep waker again .
the paragraph from the   'courier and enquirer,' which is now going the rounds of the press, and which purports to claim the invention for a mr  . kissam, of brunswick, maine, appears to me, i confess, a little apocryphal, for several reasons; although there is nothing either impossible or very improbable in the statement made.
about noon, as nearly as we could guess, our attention was again arrested by the appearance of the sun .
how many limbs have you passed? ''  ''one, two, tree, four, fibe i done pass fibe big limb, massa, pon dis side . ''
nor do i use the word prosperity in its mere worldly sense .
the cat, i remembered, had been hung in a garden adjacent to the house .
and these the dreams writhed in and about, taking hue from the rooms, and causing the wild music of the orchestra to seem as the echo of their steps .
yet his observation proves only the latter point .
subsequently, however, he submitted to monsieur g , affidavits, accounting satisfactorily for every hour of the day in question .
of late years it has visited the principal towns in the united states .
i turned my attention, therefore, to mud dabbling, and continued it for some years .
his sole garments were a stock of nine inches in height, and a nearly new drab overcoat which had formerly been in the service of the tall, stately, and illustrious dr  . moneypenny.
should they even trace the animal, it would be impossible to prove me cognizant of the murder, or to implicate me in guilt on account of that cognizance .
in the matter of phrenology, for example, we first determined, naturally enough, that it was the design of the deity that man should eat .
the  ''chirurgical journal '' of leipsic a periodical of high authority and merit, which some american bookseller would do well to translate and republish, records in a late number a very distressing event of the character in question .
i have heard it asserted that when yellow or pundit will have it violet, who is supposed to have been the first aeronaut, maintained the practicability of traversing the atmosphere in all directions, by merely ascending or descending until a favorable current was attained, he was scarcely hearkened to at all by his contemporaries, who looked upon him as merely an ingenious sort of madman, because the philosophers ? of the day declared the thing impossible .
 ''yes, uncle that is, if it would be quite agreeable to yourself . ''
i observed, however, that the shutters of the fourth story were of the peculiar kind called by parisian carpenters ferrades a kind rarely employed at the present day, but frequently seen upon very old mansions at lyons and bordeaux .
he never once thought it probable, or possible, that the minister had deposited the letter immediately beneath the nose of the whole world, by way of best preventing any portion of that world from perceiving it .
i have said that the whims of my friend were manifold, and that je les ménageais: for this phrase there is no english equivalent .
i said to myself,  ''surely here i have found the perfection of natural, in contradistinction from artificial grace . ''
and, in regard to the former branch, we must not fail to hold in view that the very calculus of probabilities to which i have referred, forbids all idea of the extension of the parallel: forbids it with a positiveness strong and decided just in proportion as this parallel has already been long drawn and exact .
oh it is the god ashimah in proper person .
there is no method in their proceedings, beyond the method of the moment .
i would not have believed that any wave could rise so high .
but, letting this matter pass for the present, i will merely observe that, from the first moment of his setting foot within the limits of the university, he began to exercise over the habits, manners, persons, purses, and propensities of the whole community which surrounded him, an influence the most extensive and despotic, yet at the same time the most indefinite and altogether unaccountable .
he then closes the back door, locks it, and, coming round to the front, opens the drawer to its full extent .
was one of those who entered the building .
noon never passed without my bringing home a customer to the house of my employers, messrs  . cut comeagain.
our gentleman was a britannia ware tea pot, and was careful to polish himself every morning with buckskin and whiting . ''
i am almost devoured by ennui .
awful calamity walking under your windows some short while ago about the time you were stage struck horrible occurrence heard of     ''catching one's breath, '' eh? hold your tongue i tell you i caught somebody elses had always too much of my own met blab at the corner of the street wouldn't give me a chance for a word couldn't get in a syllable edgeways attacked, consequently, with epilepsis blab made his escape damn all fools they took me up for dead, and put me in this place pretty doings all of them heard all you said about me every word a lie horrible wonderful outrageous hideous incomprehensible et cetera et cetera et cetera et cetera  '' it is impossible to conceive my astonishment at so unexpected a discourse, or the joy with which i became gradually convinced that the breath so fortunately caught by the gentleman whom i soon recognized as my neighbor windenough was, in fact, the identical expiration mislaid by myself in the conversation with my wife .
it was my primary object upon quitting mr  . blackwood, to get into some immediate difficulty, pursuant to his advice, and with this view i spent the greater part of the day in wandering about edinburgh, seeking for desperate adventures adventures adequate to the intensity of my feelings, and adapted to the vast character of the article i intended to write.
 ''well, sir; that is at the rate of one thousand miles per hour .
in all violent eddies at sea there is good fishing, at proper opportunities, if one has only the courage to attempt it; but among the whole of the lofoden coastmen, we three were the only ones who made a regular business of going out to the islands, as i tell you .
in the proclamation setting forth this reward, a full pardon was promised to any accomplice who should come forward in evidence against his fellow; and to the whole was appended, wherever it appeared, the private placard of a committee of citizens, offering ten thousand francs, in addition to the amount proposed by the prefecture .
i saw that two of its iron angles were now acute two, consequently, obtuse .
when i recovered myself a little, however, my gaze fell instinctively downward .
this i could discern by the studied hair splitting farrago of his rejoinder .
i called assistance, and, with much difficulty, we brought him to himself .
write   '''the epidendrum flos aeris, of java, bears a very beautiful flower, and will live when pulled up by the roots .
a thousand vague and lachrymatory fancies took possession of my soul and even the idea of suicide flitted across my brain; but it is a trait in the perversity of human nature to reject the obvious and the ready, for the far distant and equivocal .
he was at length arrested, but nothing decisive appearing against him, was in the end set at liberty .
when you first made this assertion i thought you were jesting; but afterwards i called to mind the peculiar spots on the back of the insect, and admitted to myself that your remark had some little foundation in fact .
you will not have apprehended me rightly, however, if you suppose it my design to deny this thicket as the scene of the outrage .
he trembles and is bewildered .
his wife my mother, whom he married at fifteen was a mademoiselle croissart, eldest daughter of croissart the banker, whose wife, again, being only sixteen when married, was the eldest daughter of one victor voissart .
his breath gave evidence of the poison .
at length, i even offered her personal violence .
when the large clapper thought proper to say   ''twelve o'clock '' all its obedient followers opened their throats simultaneously, and responded like a very echo .
i had thought of forcing the blade in some minute crevice of the masonry, so as to identify my point of departure .
i felt this, and, in many matters, became her pupil .
her voice was low, and her whole manner subdued .
 ''admirable '' he ejaculated, thrown quite off his guard by the beauty of the manoeuvre .
his fourth was an object of unceasing pursuit; and he held that, other things being equal, the extent of happiness was proportioned to the spirituality of this object .
when the doors were shut, the dwarf was enabled to bring his body within the box the noise produced by some portion of the machinery allowing him to do so unheard, and also to close the door by which he entered .
it is, indeed, exceedingly difficult to speculate prospectively upon the consequences of the discovery, but one thing may be positively maintained that the announcement of the discovery six months ago would have had material influence in regard to the settlement of california .
 ''perhaps it is the very simplicity of the thing which puts you at fault, '' said my friend .
his castles were without number .
let us survey the appearances here .
 ''ha ha ha '' said he,  ''curse you yes ''  ''to be sure of course i knew you were jesting .
     ''the 'good glass,' i knew, could have reference to nothing but a telescope; for the word 'glass' is rarely employed in any other sense by seamen .
he eats your dinner, he drinks your wine, he borrows your money, he pulls your nose, he kicks your poodle, and he kisses your wife .
i now tell it to you and i can scarcely expect you to put more faith in it than did the merry fishermen of lofoden . ''
could not call it a shrill voice .
among other things, i had the family vault so remodelled as to admit of being readily opened from within .
not more than six steps from the main door of the cottage stood the dead trunk of a fantastic pear tree, so clothed from head to foot in the gorgeous bignonia blossoms that one required no little scrutiny to determine what manner of sweet thing it could be .
i wish to god my young and talented friend chiponchipino, the sculptor, had but seen the legs of brevet brigadier general john a    . b. c. smith.
she was a very beautiful and painfully modest young lady, who thought the ordinary mode of habiliment indecent, and wished to dress herself, always, by getting outside instead of inside of her clothes .
the earl of ross 's telescope, lately constructed in england, has a speculum with a reflecting surface of , square inches; the herschel telescope having one of only , .
you might do a little more, i think, eh?  ''  ''how? in what way?'  ''why puff, puff you might puff, puff employ counsel in the matter, eh? puff, puff, puff .
thus my own inkling for the muses had excited his entire displeasure .
he accosted me with excessive warmth, for he had been drinking much .
great wretches, those bugaboos savage and so on but we live in a wonderfully inventive age smith o yes great man perfect desperado immortal renown prodigies of valor never heard '' this was given in a scream .
with this, she took my arm, and i attended her home .
  'i fear that i shall never see marie again .'  ''but if we cannot imagine madame rogêt privy to the design of elopement, may we not at least suppose this design entertained by the girl?
the noise lasted for several minutes, during which, that i might hearken to it with the more satisfaction, i ceased my labors and sat down upon the bones .
it was a triple stemmed tulip tree the liriodendron tulipiferum one of the natural order of magnolias .
beneath it was worn an under one of some frail material, close fitting, and terminated by a cuff of rich lace, which fell gracefully over the top of the hand, revealing only the delicate fingers, upon one of which sparkled a diamond ring, which i at once saw was of extraordinary value .
i could scarcely restrain the excessive transport which possessed me .
he buries his face in the pillow .
your diddler is impertinent .
in biography the truth is every thing, and in autobiography it is especially so yet i scarcely hope to be believed when i state, however solemnly, that my poor father put me, when i was about fifteen years of age, into the counting house of what be termed  ''a respectable hardware and commission merchant doing a capital bit of business '' a capital bit of fiddlestick however, the consequence of this folly was, that in two or three days, i had to be sent home to my button headed family in a high state of fever, and with a most violent and dangerous pain in the sinciput, all around about my organ of order .
for it is evident that such a medium must, in retarding the comet 's velocity, increase its centripetal, by weakening its centrifugal force .
after a little while i became possessed with the keenest curiosity about the whirl itself .
in the meanwhile i could not help making anticipations .
while my former system was in operation, and my patients were permitted the privilege of roaming to and fro at will, they were often aroused to a dangerous frenzy by injudicious persons who called to inspect the house .
strange, brilliant flowers, star shaped, burn out upon the trees where no flowers had been known before .
the most general opinion in relation to it, an opinion too not unfrequently adopted by men who should have known better, was, as we have before said, that no immediate human agency was employed in other words, that the machine was purely a machine and nothing else .
at length, erecting his frame, he looked upwards, and ejaculated the lines of the bishop of chichester:  ''stay for me there i will not fail to meet thee in that hollow vale . ''
shouts of laughter ascend the skies .
there are some subjects upon which i take pleasure in being minute .
after this the will of the patient succumbed rapidly to that of the physician, so that, when i first became acquainted with the two, sleep was brought about almost instantaneously by the mere volition of the operator, even when the invalid was unaware of his presence .
by the time, however, that the fog had thoroughly disappeared, the sun had made its way down behind the gentle hills, and thence, as if with a slight chassez to the south, had come again fully into sight, glaring with a purplish lustre through a chasm that entered the valley from the west .
 ''one '' said the clock .
the sea of people is coming this way, and we shall find a difficulty in stemming the tide .
but in his toilsome journey to the water his fears redouble within him .
for many seconds i hearkened to its reverberations as it dashed against the sides of the chasm in its descent; at length there was a sullen plunge into water, succeeded by loud echoes .
when the grim darkness overspread the earth, then, with every horror of thought, i shook shook as the quivering plumes upon the hearse .
they are in the form of an ordinary door, a single, not a folding door except that the lower half is latticed or worked in open trellis thus affording an excellent hold for the hands .
forced it open, at length, with a bayonet not with a crowbar .
those who know any thing of the vicinity of paris, know the extreme difficulty of finding seclusion unless at a great distance from its suburbs .
we soon ran out our guide rope; but even when we had raised it clear of the earth, we still went up very rapidly .
a portion of it may form, when tightly stretched, the only partitions which there is any necessity for removing during the changes of the man 's position, viz: the partition between the rear of the main compartment and the rear of the cupboard no  . , and the partition between the main compartment, and the space behind the drawer when open.
he called upon us early in the afternoon of the thirteenth of july, , and remained with us until late in the night .
the whole thought was now present feeble, scarcely sane, scarcely definite, but still entire .
if the guess is right, the guesser wins one; if wrong, he loses one .
it was composed by my pet baboon, juniper, over a rummer of hollands and water,   'hot, without sugar .' ''
 ''dupin '' i said, completely unnerved;  ''this hair is most unusual this is no human hair . ''
 ''you will see, '' he said,  ''that i have shifted the question from the mode of egress to that of ingress .
for me it is no matter .
having reached his closet, i noiselessly entered, leaving the lamp, with a shade over it, on the outside .
when, coming out from among mankind, i passed into night through the grave at that period, if i remember aright, the calamity which overwhelmed you was utterly unanticipated .
there is no answer, except that we feel perverse, using the word with no comprehension of the principle .
the windows, both of the back and front room, were down and firmly fastened from within .
as for republicanism, no analogy could be found for it upon the face of the earth unless we except the case of the  ''prairie dogs, '' an exception which seems to demonstrate, if anything, that democracy is a very admirable form of government for dogs .
the gigantic stature, the prodigious strength and activity, the wild ferocity, and the imitative propensities of these mammalia are sufficiently well known to all .
a glance, however, at his countenance, convinced me of his perfect sincerity .
pirouette she was not to be discovered, and i made my retreat from the house in a very bitter spirit of animosity against the whole race of the bas bleus .
but, uplifting my eyes, i saw that berenice stood before me .
a small protuberance about eight inches square, and also covered with dark cloth, lies on the floor of the compartment near the rear corner on the spectators ' left hand .
to one end of the cravat i then made fast the buckle, and the other end i tied, for greater security, tightly around my wrist .
for a very long period of time i was accustomed to revel in this sentiment .
now, my dear friend, i do assure you, most positively, that i represent this matter fairly, on the soundest authority and you can easily understand how a notion so absurd on its very face must have operated to retard the progress of all true knowledge which makes its advances almost invariably by intuitive bounds .
grin: your true diddler winds up all with a grin .
with perfect certainty, therefore, of being comprehended, i beg leave, in lieu of offering any sentiments of my own, to refer you to the opinions of sieur hedelin, as set forth in the ninth paragraph of the chapter of  ''injuriae per applicationem, per constructionem, et per se, '' in his  ''duelli lex scripta, et non; aliterque . ''
this is the mode by which the mind of the rudimental life communicates with the external world; and this external world is, to the rudimental life, limited, through the idiosyncrasy of its organs .
and, as my business habits, in this respect, were sufficiently understood, i never met with any attempt at imposition .
but for this circumstance we should have foundered at once for we lay entirely buried for some moments .
it ran thus:    ''to pen an ode upon the 'oil of bob  .' '' having carefully looked out, however, all the legitimate rhymes to  ''bob, '' i found it impossible to proceed.
i longed, yet dared not to employ my vision .
in fine, she revived .
as i said these words i busied myself among the pile of bones of which i have before spoken .
not to oppose it under such circumstances, i sincerely believe, was not in his power .
look at me how i labored how i toiled how i wrote ye gods, did i not write?
two small boys, sons of a madame deluc, while roaming among the woods near the barrière du roule, chanced to penetrate a close thicket, within which were three or four large stones, forming a kind of seat, with a back and footstool .
mr  . freyhere 's book was a pretty large one, and copiously illustrated by colored engravings.
madame l 'espanaye and her daughter, habited in their night clothes, had apparently been occupied in arranging some papers in the iron chest already mentioned, which had been wheeled into the middle of the room .
 ''such a hurricane as then blew it is folly to attempt describing .
my apparatus all continued in good order, and the balloon still ascended without any perceptible vacillation .
i prayed i wearied heaven with my prayer for its more speedy descent .
the fiftieth part of a line could not escape us .
indeed, phenomena have there occurred of a nature so completely unexpected so entirely novel so utterly at variance with preconceived opinions as to leave no doubt on my mind that long ere this all europe is in an uproar, all physics in a ferment, all reason and astronomy together by the ears .
that the ghastly extremes of agony are endured by man the unit, and never by man the mass for this let us thank a merciful god to be buried while alive is, beyond question, the most terrific of these extremes which has ever fallen to the lot of mere mortality .
they penetrate, however, rudderless or compassless into the vast ocean of the  ''light ineffable, '' and again, like the adventures of the nubian geographer,  ''agressi sunt mare tenebrarum, quid in eo esset exploraturi . ''
    'a piece,' it says, 'of one of the unfortunate girl's petticoats, two feet long, and one foot wide, was torn out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams .
the greater part of the fearful night had worn away, and she who had been dead, once again stirred and now more vigorously than hitherto, although arousing from a dissolution more appalling in its utter hopelessness than any .
i cannot deny that there has always existed, as if in that very soul which i have been denying, a vague half sentiment of its own existence .
the front door of the house had been left open, and the visiter had entered, without ringing, and advanced several steps upon the staircase .
the usual approach to arnheim was by the river .
we must cut him at once . ''
 ''i am thunderstruck at the extent of your information i am positively upon my soul . ''
i did this, and the clamorer grew still .
the ourang outang must have escaped from the chamber, by the rod, just before the break of the door .
let us set these characters down, thus, by the letters we know them to represent, leaving a space for the unknown t eeth .
these dimensions are fully sufficient for the accommodation of a man very much above the common size and the main compartment alone is capable of holding any ordinary man in the position we have mentioned as assumed by the person concealed .
i could scarcely contain my feelings of triumph .
here, it will be remembered, the words of the narrative run thus:  ''and ethelred, who was by nature of a doughty heart, and who was now mighty withal, on account of the powerfulness of the wine which he had drunken, waited no longer to hold parley with the hermit, who, in sooth, was of an obstinate and maliceful turn, but, feeling the rain upon his shoulders, and fearing the rising of the tempest, uplifted his mace outright, and, with blows, made quickly room in the plankings of the door for his gauntleted hand; and now pulling therewith sturdily, he so cracked, and ripped, and tore all asunder, that the noise of the dry and hollow sounding wood alarummed and reverberated throughout the forest . ''
the glee at my heart was too strong to be restrained .
 ''in the meantime the breeze that had headed us off fell away, and we were dead becalmed, drifting about in every direction .
 ''we had rather hot work of it, that you may say .
but had she then grown taller since her malady?
on one of the staircases, i met the physician of the family .
there came a wild rattling or jingling sound, as if of a bunch of large keys, and upon the instant a dusky visaged and half naked man rushed past me with a shriek .
it should be remembered, however, that when i fell in the first instance, from the car, if i had fallen with my face turned toward the balloon, instead of turned outwardly from it, as it actually was; or if, in the second place, the cord by which i was suspended had chanced to hang over the upper edge, instead of through a crevice near the bottom of the car, i say it may be readily conceived that, in either of these supposed cases, i should have been unable to accomplish even as much as i had now accomplished, and the wonderful adventures of hans pfaall would have been utterly lost to posterity, i had therefore every reason to be grateful; although, in point of fact, i was still too stupid to be anything at all, and hung for, perhaps, a quarter of an hour in that extraordinary manner, without making the slightest farther exertion whatsoever, and in a singularly tranquil state of idiotic enjoyment .
 ''there are two windows in the chamber .
blood was its avatar and its seal the redness and the horror of blood .
i arose, as i thought, a new man, and proceeded steadily and complacently on my unknown way .
there was a boat lying upon a sea coast, and not far from the boat was a parchment not a paper with a skull depicted upon it .
 ''true, '' said g  .;  ''and upon this conviction i proceeded.
i again nodded my head in assent .
it was seen that mr  . stapleton was alive, although in a swoon.
it is now , at night, and we are still going nearly west, at a rapid pace .
having opened this drawer to its full extent, a small cushion, and a set of chessmen, fixed in a frame work made to support them perpendicularly, are discovered .
it was in devoting his enormous wealth to the embodiment of a vision such as this in the free exercise in the open air ensured by the personal superintendence of his plans in the unceasing object which these plans afforded in the high spirituality of the object in the contempt of ambition which it enabled him truly to feel in the perennial springs with which it gratified, without possibility of satiating, that one master passion of his soul, the thirst for beauty, above all, it was in the sympathy of a woman, not unwomanly, whose loveliness and love enveloped his existence in the purple atmosphere of paradise, that ellison thought to find, and found, exemption from the ordinary cares of humanity, with a far greater amount of positive happiness than ever glowed in the rapt day dreams of de stael .
de kock i will thank you to behave yourself '' here interrupted an old lady, who sat next to the speaker .
for nearly an hour, we busied ourselves, silently without the utterance of a word in endeavors to revive mr  . l l.
there is no passing muster, however, without spanish, italian, german, latin, and greek .
the gyrations of the whirl grew, gradually, less and less violent .
i could not summon courage to move .
of his mind i say nothing, of course .
  ''wouldn't it answer, bobby, if i were to leave it at random some time within a year or so, for example?
it did not make its appearance during the night and thus for one night at least, since its introduction into the house, i soundly and tranquilly slept; aye, slept even with the burden of murder upon my soul the second and the third day passed, and still my tormentor came not .
i watched it for some minutes, somewhat in fear, but more in wonder .
the duc slips a card .
 ''to this horrible mystery there is not as yet, we believe, the slightest clew . ''
with this he had been inspired by casimir perier, whose pert little query  ''a quoi un poete est il bon? '' he was in the habit of quoting, with a very droll pronunciation, as the ne plus ultra of logical wit .
if you have never been at sea in a heavy gale, you can form no idea of the confusion of mind occasioned by the wind and spray together .
the red blood bounded tumultuously through its strict channels .
such a winking and blinking were never before seen .
a lightning rod is ascended without difficulty, especially by a sailor; but, when he had arrived as high as the window, which lay far to his left, his career was stopped; the most that he could accomplish was to reach over so as to obtain a glimpse of the interior of the room .
the   'soothing system,' you know, was then in operation, and the patients were at large .
having rid himself of his ghastly charge, the murderer would have hastened to the city .
still, i am innocent, and i will make a clean breast if i die for it . ''
notwithstanding terrifically wide sweep some thirty feet or more and the hissing vigor of its descent, sufficient to sunder these very walls of iron, still the fraying of my robe would be all that, for several minutes, it would accomplish .
how absurd in these people, then, to persist in putting faith in  ''axioms '' as immutable bases of truth but even out of the mouths of their soundest reasoners it is easy to demonstrate the futility, the impalpability of their axioms in general .
were he not a diddler, he would be a maker of patent rat traps or an angler for trout .
you will see the necessity, i hope, of quitting oxford at all events, of quitting instantly my chambers . ''
this policy would have suggested .
it was love supreme indescribable .
upon attempting to draw this trunk out from under the bed, they found that, with their united strength there were three of them, all powerful men, they   'could not stir it one inch .'
nevertheless, he had his uses, as every thing has, however vile, and taught mankind a lesson which to this day it is in no danger of forgetting never to run directly contrary to the natural analogies .
 ''but, '' said i,  ''the enigma seems still in as bad a condition as ever .
this occasion we have already stated to occur when the man concealed within brings his body into an erect position upon the closing of the back door  . .
and, even then, my mortal terrors would listen to no reason would accept no consolation .
i was then sure that you reflected upon the diminutive figure of chantilly .
corroboration will rise upon corroboration, and the murderer will be traced . ''
 ''sir, '' i said,  ''it is the science of noses . ''
presently his voice was heard in a sort of halloo .
poor girl she was barely fifteen, and without this consent, her little amount in the funds was not come at able until five immeasurable summers had  ''dragged their slow length along . ''
i need scarce tell you, my friend, that, even when you left us, men had agreed to understand those passages in the most holy writings which speak of the final destruction of all things by fire, as having reference to the orb of the earth alone .
that they existed in a sort of every man for himself confederacy, after the fashion of the  ''prairie dogs '' that we read of in fable .
minutely and sagaciously directing the various modes of investment, he bequeathed the aggregate amount to the nearest of blood, bearing the name ellison, who should be alive at the end of the hundred years .
even the very lights from the city bewilder him .
i made no doubt that here was the    'devil's seat' alluded to in the ms  ., and now i seemed to grasp the full secret of the riddle.
bringing my telescope to bear upon it, i plainly discerned it to be a british ninety four gun ship, close hauled, and pitching heavily in the sea with her head to the w   .s.w.
in these paintings, which depended from the walls not only in their main surfaces, but in very many nooks which the bizarre architecture of the chateau rendered necessary in these paintings my incipient delirium, perhaps, had caused me to take deep interest; so that i bade pedro to close the heavy shutters of the room since it was already night to light the tongues of a tall candelabrum which stood by the head of my bed and to throw open far and wide the fringed curtains of black velvet which enveloped the bed itself .
 ''mein gott, den, vat a vool you bees for dat '' replied one of the most remarkable voices i ever heard .
in the former, the torture of meditation was excessive in the latter, supreme .
thenceforward we were enshrouded in patchy darkness, so that we could not have seen an object at twenty paces from the ship .
it was firmly secured by bands of wrought iron, riveted, and forming a kind of open trelliswork over the whole .
emicant trabes quos docos vocant .
in another instant both body and box were in the sea disappearing suddenly, at once and forever .
while i gazed, this fissure rapidly widened there came a fierce breath of the whirlwind the entire orb of the satellite burst at once upon my sight my brain reeled as i saw the mighty walls rushing asunder there was a long tumultuous shouting sound like the voice of a thousand waters and the deep and dank tarn at my feet closed sullenly and silently over the fragments of the  ''house of usher . ''
these, no doubt, were singular fancies to occupy a man 's mind in such extremity and i have often thought since, that the revolutions of the boat around the pool might have rendered me a little light headed .
to be sure, it has a circulation of ,, and its subscription list has increased one third during the last fortnight, but on the other hand, the sums it disburses, monthly, for contributions, are fearfully great .
there were several very large and heavy coins, so worn that we could make nothing of their inscriptions .
the true poet possessed of very unusual pecuniary resources, might possibly, while retaining the necessary idea of art or interest or culture, so imbue his designs at once with extent and novelty of beauty, as to convey the sentiment of spiritual interference .
with riches merely surpassing those of any citizen, it would have been easy to suppose him engaging to supreme excess in the fashionable extravagances of his time or busying himself with political intrigue or aiming at ministerial power or purchasing increase of nobility or collecting large museums of virtu or playing the munificent patron of letters, of science, of art or endowing, and bestowing his name upon extensive institutions of charity .
terms, however, are no object only he must insist upon settling his bill on the first of every month, it is now the second and begs his landlady, when he finally obtains one to his mind, not on any account to forget his instructions upon this point but to send in a bill, and receipt, precisely at ten o 'clock, on the first day of every month, and under no circumstances to put it off to the second .
but seated here where i write this in the luxuriously cushioned open piazza of the summit, one can see everything that is going on in all directions .
i thus formed the third of the party .
the bottoms and tops of bedposts are employed in the same way . ''
it had been determined for us by talbot, that, as we were to be up all night, we should make our first stop at c , a village about twenty miles from the city, and there get an early breakfast and some repose, before proceeding upon our route .
much that i encountered on the way contributed, i know not how, to heighten the vague sentiments of which i have already spoken .
there was no chance of hearing anything farther that evening in regard to brevet brigadier general john a    . b. c. smith.
the diddler purchases one or two dozen of these blanks, and every day dips one of them in his soup, makes his dog jump for it, and finally gives it to him as a bonne bouche .
 ''the screw consists of an axis of hollow brass tube, eighteen inches in length, through which, upon a semi spiral inclined at fifteen degrees, pass a series of steel wire radii, two feet long, and thus projecting a foot on either side .
the water increased in transparency .
as might have been expected, spasms and violent headache were the immediate consequences of an experiment so precipitate and full of danger .
i saw, indeed, that they were his, but i shook as if with a fit of the ague in fancying they were not .
the whole page was blotted with fresh tears; and, upon the opposite interleaf, were the following english lines, written in a hand so very different from the peculiar characters of my acquaintance, that i had some difficulty in recognising it as his own: thou wast that all to me, love, for which my soul did pine a green isle in the sea, love, a fountain and a shrine, all wreathed with fairy fruits and flowers; and all the flowers were mine .
weak minded, and beset with constitutional infirmities akin to my own, my parents could do but little to check the evil propensities which distinguished me .
his business is retail, for cash, or approved paper at sight .
he had written infamous things .
after dinner, however, when you have sufficiently recovered from the fatigue of your ride, i will be happy to take you over the house, and introduce to you a system which, in my opinion, and in that of every one who has witnessed its operation, is incomparably the most effectual as yet devised . ''
this done, you have only to stroll along, with the mill on your back, until you see tanbark in the street, and a knocker wrapped up in buckskin .
moreover, near neighbors are seldom friends; and the inhabitants of the castle berlifitzing might look, from their lofty buttresses, into the very windows of the palace metzengerstein .
i thought at length that he comprehended my design but, whether this was the case or not, he shook his head despairingly, and refused to move from his station by the ring bolt .
the policy of insurance for my dwelling house had expired the day before; and, some dispute having arisen, it was agreed that, at six, i should meet the board of directors of the company and settle the terms of a renewal .
my object is simply, in the first place, to say a few words of von kempelen himself with whom, some years ago, i had the honor of a slight personal acquaintance, since every thing which concerns him must necessarily, at this moment, be of interest; and, in the second place, to look in a general way, and speculatively, at the results of the discovery .
but a new and fearful object soon rivetted the attention of the multitude, and proved how much more intense is the excitement wrought in the feelings of a crowd by the contemplation of human agony, than that brought about by the most appalling spectacles of inanimate matter .
my letter was returned by that footman, with the following endorsement in pencil .
filled with despair, and still inflamed by the memory of a profound attachment, the lover journeys from the capital to the remote province in which the village lies, with the romantic purpose of disinterring the corpse, and possessing himself of its luxuriant tresses .
it is equally unredressed when the avenger fails to make himself felt as such to him who has done the wrong .
there were some trivial arrangements afterwards, to be sure; but these formed no portion of the plan .
and at the baptismal font i hesitated for a name .
one finds it difficult, too, to conceive the vast masses which these people handle so easily, to be as light as our own reason tells us they actually are .
i observed that these bottles had labels about their necks, and that these labels were inscribed  ''kirschenwasser . ''
to do do medium size                   ................. aug. .
yet although the external abbey, with its verdant decay hanging about it, suffered but little alteration, i gave way, with a child like perversity, and perchance with a faint hope of alleviating my sorrows, to a display of more than regal magnificence within .
the result of this well conceived plan, however, the success of which would have saved me much trouble in after life, served to convince me that some editors are not to be bamboozled, and gave the coup de grace as they say in france, to my nascent hopes, as they say in the city of the transcendentals .
singular to relate, it was once much admired as an article of female dress balloons were also very generally constructed from it .
i lay down in the bottom of the car, and endeavored to collect my faculties .
the president, however, was the first to recover his composure, and at length, turning to legs with great dignity, recommenced:  ''most willingly will we gratify any reasonable curiosity on the part of guests so illustrious, unbidden though they be .
a cadaverousness of complexion; an eye large, liquid, and luminous beyond comparison; lips somewhat thin and very pallid, but of a surpassingly beautiful curve; a nose of a delicate hebrew model, but with a breadth of nostril unusual in similar formations; a finely moulded chin, speaking, in its want of prominence, of a want of moral energy; hair of a more than web like softness and tenuity; these features, with an inordinate expansion above the regions of the temple, made up altogether a countenance not easily to be forgotten .
the editor says:  ''now, then, a change comes over the matter .
his last words i distinctly remember .
so, too, when the noon of the second day came, i was not unconscious of those movements which displaced you from my side, which confined me within the coffin, which deposited me within the hearse, which bore me to the grave, which lowered me within it, which heaped heavily the mould upon me, and which thus left me, in blackness and corruption, to my sad and solemn slumbers with the worm .
the chance for throwing sixes seems to be precisely as it was at any ordinary time that is to say, subject only to the influence of the various other throws which may be made by the dice .
our player confines himself not at all; nor, because the game is the object, does he reject deductions from things external to the game .
through the impediments afforded by the number, complexity, and substantiality of the laws of organic life and matter, the violation of law is rendered, to a certain extent, practicable .
to that last hour of all, there hung a cloud of intense gloom and devout sorrow over your household .
she was evidently a lady of breeding .
   ''four letters beyond the word 'degree,' we perceive the combination ;; .
  ''hum hoo dat's good why dare aint no eye lef at all   . ''  ''curse your stupidity do you know your right hand from your left? ''  ''yes, i nose dat nose all bout dat tis my lef hand what i chops de wood wid. ''  ''to be sure you are left handed; and your left eye is on the same side as your left hand.
we removed every carpet, and examined the boards with the microscope . ''
the proposition, in this form, will be admitted at once by those who love the lyre for its own sake, and for its spiritual uses .
at the last moment i will enclose the ms  . in a bottle, and cast it within the sea.
the folding doors remain shut, and the drawer is returned empty .
i had told them that i should not return until the morning, and had given them explicit orders not to stir from the house .
on the fourteenth this had greatly diminished; on the fifteenth a still more remarkable decrease was observable; and, on retiring on the night of the sixteenth, i had noticed an angle of no more than about seven degrees and fifteen minutes .
i now tell you that i heard her first feeble movements in the hollow coffin .
it flies it disappears we are free .
but why, agathos, do you weep and why, oh why do your wings droop as we hover above this fair star which is the greenest and yet most terrible of all we have encountered in our flight?
the idea of its being gold never entered their brains, of course; how could such a wild fancy have entered it?
 ''there is no exquisite beauty, '' says bacon, lord verulam, speaking truly of all the forms and genera of beauty,  ''without some strangeness in the proportion . ''
 ''diamond like, '' also, was scarcely, it will be admitted, of sufficient intensity to express what the  ''mole '' evidently thought of the brilliancy of the  ''oil of bob . ''
the  ''red death '' had long devastated the country .
 ''why, yes; and not exactly that, either .
 ''humph '' resumed the voice, as i continued my survey,  ''you mus pe so dronk as de pig, den, for not zee me as i zit here at your zide . ''
    'this fir tree,' i found myself at one time saying, 'will certainly be the next thing that takes the awful plunge and disappears,' and then i was disappointed to find that the wreck of a dutch merchant ship overtook it and went down before .
i presume you have at last made up your mind that there is no such thing as overreaching the minister? ''
the    ''owl, '' a journal of profound sagacity, and well known for the deliberate gravity of its literary decisions the  ''owl, '' i say, spoke as follows:  '''the lollipop' the october number of this delicious magazine surpasses its predecessors, and sets competition at defiance .
please to examine, at your leisure, the inner linings of the cuff of his left sleeve, and the several little packages which may be found in the somewhat capacious pockets of his embroidered morning wrapper . ''
from some peculiar circumstances attending the administration of his father, the young baron, at the decease of the former, entered immediately upon his vast possessions .
i wish you could have seen him, sir, '' here the speaker addressed myself  ''it would have done your heart good to see the natural airs that he put on .
strange as it may appear, the third week from the discovery of the body had passed, and passed without any light being thrown upon the subject, before even a rumor of the events which had so agitated the public mind, reached the ears of dupin and myself .
for my own part, i intend to believe nothing henceforward that has anything of the   'singular' about it . ''
he, the fly, was very little better than he should be .
now, the power of elevation lies altogether in the superior lightness of the gas in the balloon compared with the atmospheric air; and, at first sight, it does not appear probable that, as the balloon acquires altitude, and consequently arrives successively in atmospheric strata of densities rapidly diminishing i say, it does not appear at all reasonable that, in this its progress upwards, the original velocity should be accelerated .
the keepers, ten in number, having been suddenly overpowered, were first well tarred, then carefully feathered, and then shut up in underground cells .
nearly the whole sum mentioned by monsieur mignaud, the banker, was discovered, in bags, upon the floor .
here was indeed the triumph of all things heavenly the magnificent turn of the short upper lip the soft, voluptuous slumber of the under the dimples which sported, and the color which spoke the teeth glancing back, with a brilliancy almost startling, every ray of the holy light which fell upon them in her serene and placid, yet most exultingly radiant of all smiles .
yet it is not wonderful that these conceptions are indefinite, since they have their origin in sources so utterly novel .
these brushes were passed up and down every flue in the house .
he certainly seemed young and he made a point of speaking about his youth yet there were moments when i should have had little trouble in imagining him a hundred years of age .
the fact is, we have all been a good deal puzzled because the affair is so simple, and yet baffles us altogether . ''
the propeller was kept in constant operation, and, no doubt, aided our progress materially .
meantime the machine rapidly soared, while my strength even more rapidly failed .
his operations are upon a small scale .
i prayed for death, and, in the agony of the moment, could not help repeating those exquisite verses of the poet miguel de cervantes: vanny buren, tan escondida query no te senty venny pork and pleasure, delly morry nommy, torny, darry, widdy but now a new horror presented itself, and one indeed sufficient to startle the strongest nerves .
 ''ebber so fur, '' replied the negro;  ''can see de sky fru de top ob de tree . ''
 ''scarcely, however, had i attained the height of fifty yards, when, roaring and rumbling up after me in the most horrible and tumultuous manner, came so dense a hurricane of fire, and smoke, and sulphur, and legs and arms, and gravel, and burning wood, and blazing metal, that my very heart sunk within me, and i fell down in the bottom of the car, trembling with unmitigated terror .
i seized him; when, in his fright at my violence, he inflicted a slight wound upon my hand with his teeth .
apart, however, from the inevitable conclusion, a priori that such causes must produce such effects that the well known occurrence of such cases of suspended animation must naturally give rise, now and then, to premature interments apart from this consideration, we have the direct testimony of medical and ordinary experience to prove that a vast number of such interments have actually taken place .
to use a sporting phrase, i had not been once   'at fault .'
this was forty feet long, and spanned the interval between shore and shore with a slight but very perceptible arch, preventing all oscillation .
 ''the apartment was in the wildest disorder the furniture broken and thrown about in all directions .
we shall find these means multiplying and gathering distinctness as we proceed .
in fact i was even more startled than i would have been willing to express .
glendinning had been represented to my eager inquiries as immeasurably wealthy; and the sums which he had as yet lost, although in themselves vast, could not, i supposed, very seriously annoy, much less so violently affect him .
they seemed to be screams of some person or persons in great agony were loud and drawn out, not short and quick .
this extraordinary behavior, by throwing me into a perfect fever of excitement into an absolute delirium of love served rather to embolden than to disconcert me .
on the lid were painted the words  ''mrs .
at length, looking under the bed, they saw a large, common hair trunk, without hinges, hasp, or lock, and with the top lying carelessly across the bottom portion .
but he regarded me piteously with his large eyes and sighed .
after a few months, therefore, of weary and aimless wandering, i purchased, and put in some repair, an abbey, which i shall not name, in one of the wildest and least frequented portions of fair england .
will you confer upon me the favor of taking charge of this pocket book i know i can trust you and of advertising it?
the throat had evidently been cut with some very sharp instrument probably with a razor .
 ''that the voices heard in contention, '' he said,  ''by the party upon the stairs, were not the voices of the women themselves, was fully proved by the evidence .
upon the bed, before that whole company, there lay a nearly liquid mass of loathsome of detestable putridity .
he can have no idea of the wonder of a pirouette .
i had not counted in vain upon their voracity .
 ''my sweetest eugenie, '' i cried,  ''what is all this about which you are discoursing?
the floors are of square tiles, the chairs and tables of black looking wood with thin crooked legs and puppy feet .
 ''you remember that when i went to the table, for the purpose of making a sketch of the beetle, i found no paper where it was usually kept .
there were much glare and glitter and piquancy and phantasm much of what has been since seen in  ''hernani . ''
either the fool could not, or the villain would not perceive me .
it was now nearly if not altogether daylight; and, as i gazed, enraptured, at the angel by my side, the singular idea came, all at once, into my head, that this was really the very first moment since my acquaintance with the celebrated loveliness of madame lalande, that i had enjoyed a near inspection of that loveliness by daylight at all .
at one time, however, i thought myself sure of my prize, having, in rummaging a dressing case, accidentally demolished a bottle of grandjean 's oil of archangels which, as an agreeable perfume, i here take the liberty of recommending .
in this manner it is necessary that the exhibiter should often pass from one table to the other .
upon my calling at mr   . b. 's, and making known to him the wishes of the society, he received me with great civility, took me into his study, and gave me a clear explanation of the whole process.
the attempts to account for the phenomenon some of which, i remember, seemed to me sufficiently plausible in perusal now wore a very different and unsatisfactory aspect .
i could not imagine a more graceful curve than that of the os femoris, and there was just that due gentle prominence in the rear of the fibula which goes to the conformation of a properly proportioned calf .
and have i not told you that what you mistake for madness is but over acuteness of the sense?
of course it was in the rear of the house .
one morning, in cool blood, i slipped a noose about its neck and hung it to the limb of a tree; hung it with the tears streaming from my eyes, and with the bitterest remorse at my heart; hung it because i knew that it had loved me, and because i felt it had given me no reason of offence; hung it because i knew that in so doing i was committing a sin a deadly sin that would so jeopardize my immortal soul as to place it if such a thing wore possible even beyond the reach of the infinite mercy of the most merciful and most terrible god .
this we at last accomplished but we were still unable to do any thing at the pumps; and, in the meantime, the leak gained on us very fast .
i designed to imply that the deductions are the sole proper ones, and that the suspicion arises inevitably from them as the single result .
this young gentleman was remarkable in every respect, and excited in me a profound interest and curiosity .
 ''in the sides of the covering thus adjusted round the car, had been inserted three circular panes of thick but clear glass, through which i could see without difficulty around me in every horizontal direction .
his coat tail is very far longer his pipe, his shoe buckles, his eyes, and his stomach, very far bigger than those of any other old gentleman in the village; and as to his chin, it is not only double, but triple .
supposing, then, the springs upon each sash to be the same, as was probable, there must be found a difference between the nails, or at least between the modes of their fixture .
i had been advised to study cousin .
it was  ''love at first sight; '' and at first sight, too, it had been appreciated and returned .
but this very just apprehension seemed by no means likely to be soon verified .
by the by, talking of humanity, do you know that our immortal wiggins is not so original in his views of the social condition and so forth, as his contemporaries are inclined to suppose?
these vanes were four in number, but were found entirely ineffectual in moving the balloon, or in aiding its ascending power .
the mail robber w , to whom i bore a singular resemblance, was at this moment passing from the city jail to the scaffold erected for his execution in the suburbs .
at fifteen, or even at twenty one for i had now passed my fifth olympiad five years in prospect are very much the same as five hundred .
his departure afforded me relief .
over some flasks of the red chian wine, within the walls of a noble hall, in a dim city called ptolemais, we sat, at night, a company of seven .
this judgment awaited direction, and the known outrage seemed so opportunely to afford it marie, too, was found in the river; and upon this very river was this known outrage committed .
about three o 'clock, in the afternoon of the sunday in question, a young girl arrived at the inn, accompanied by a young man of dark complexion .
i proceeded at once, with the nervous energy of despair, to attempt its execution .
he seemed stupified thunderstricken .
his accession to the throne, or rather his usurpation of the sovereignty, a hundred and seventy one years before the coming of christ; his attempt to plunder the temple of diana at ephesus; his implacable hostility to the jews; his pollution of the holy of holies; and his miserable death at taba, after a tumultuous reign of eleven years, are circumstances of a prominent kind, and therefore more generally noticed by the historians of his time than the impious, dastardly, cruel, silly, and whimsical achievements which make up the sum total of his private life and reputation .
i remembered, too, strange stories told about these ragged hills, and of the uncouth and fierce races of men who tenanted their groves and caverns .
the thought was too terrible to bear .
the opinion must be rigorously the public 's own; and the distinction is often exceedingly difficult to perceive and to maintain .
do you know that jupiter is quite right about it? ''
for although we may admit infinite littleness in the atoms themselves, the infinitude of littleness in the spaces between them is an absurdity .
i say that even their exceeding density did not prevent our perceiving this yet we had no glimpse of the moon or stars nor was there any flashing forth of the lightning .
they are right in this much that their own ingenuity is a faithful representative of that of the mass; but when the cunning of the individual felon is diverse in character from their own, the felon foils them, of course .
nevertheless, i am not the husband of my great, great, grandmother; and this is a reflection which affords me infinite relief, but i am the husband of madame lalande of madame stephanie lalande with whom my good old relative, besides making me her sole heir when she dies if she ever does has been at the trouble of concocting me a match .
it is clear that the assassins were in the room where mademoiselle l 'espanaye was found, or at least in the room adjoining, when the party ascended the stairs .
the balloon kept steadily on her course to the southward, and arrived, at nine p   .m., over the northern edge of the mexican gulf.
with a little more prudence dick turpin would have made a good diddler; with a trifle less blarney, daniel o 'connell; with a pound or two more brains charles the twelfth .
i knew one about eight years of age, whose success at guessing in the game of   'even and odd' attracted universal admiration .
it is said, on the contrary, that during each and every one of his one and twenty circumvolutions he emitted no less than one and twenty distinct and furious whiffs from his pipe, to which he held fast the whole time with all his might, and to which he intends holding fast until the day of his death .
in an agony of expectation i awaited the reply .
i said to him  ''my dear fortunato, you are luckily met .
but the fervid facility of his impromptus could not be so accounted for .
they are all, however, fitting tapestry for a chamber such as this .
are these the picked bones of the little angel who has been cruelly devoured by the monster?
doctor templeton had been a traveller in his younger days, and at paris had become a convert, in great measure, to the doctrines of mesmer .
i chuckled excessively when i thought of my acumen .
even his honor was concerned .
  ''get out o' that '' said a third .
its approach was not, at first, seemingly rapid; nor was its appearance of very unusual character .
all these and security were within .
good bye, until i see you again .
the second step having been a consequence of the data, the third step is equally a consequence of the second, the fourth of the third, the fifth of the fourth, and so on, and not possibly otherwise, to the end .
i was aroused to a sense of exquisite pain .
the first coup d 'oeil, as the sun slid into the position described, impressed me very much as i have been impressed, when a boy, by the concluding scene of some well arranged theatrical spectacle or melodrama .
he was, moreover, enwrapt in an exquisite sense of the strange .
write    'van muerte tan escondida, que no te sienta venir, porque el plazer del morir, no mestorne a dar la vida  .'  ''that's spanish from miguel de cervantes.
horrors of a nature most stern and most appalling would too frequently obtrude themselves upon my mind, and shake the innermost depths of my soul with the bare supposition of their possibility .
he resolved to drag the burthen the evidence goes to show that it was dragged .
what boots it to tell of the long, long hours of horror more than mortal, during which i counted the rushing vibrations of the steel inch by inch line by line with a descent only appreciable at intervals that seemed ages down and still down it came days passed it might have been that many days passed ere it swept so closely over me as to fan me with its acrid breath .
who was it died of  ''the andromache ''?
i had advanced some ten or twelve paces in this manner, when the remnant of the torn hem of my robe became entangled between my legs .
 ''please keep your feet to yourself you have spoiled my brocade is it necessary, pray, to illustrate a remark in so practical a style?
being youthful and good looking, i naturally dislike these, and have resolutely refused to employ them .
i saw that she must die and i struggled desperately in spirit with the grim azrael .
you need not look up at the heavens; his sunship is not there at least not the sunship adored by the syrians .
i could not in any reason have so rapidly come down .
 ''dios guarda '' muttered don stiletto .
by way of punishing me for this imprudence, she concocted with talbot a plot .
i looked in the drawer, and found none there .
thus man is individualized .
 ''four of the above named witnesses, being recalled, deposed that the door of the chamber in which was found the body of mademoiselle l  . was locked on the inside when the party reached it.
there was no investigation of any thing at all .
it could hardly be credited, however, that i had, even here, so utterly fallen from the gentlemanly estate, as to seek acquaintance with the vilest arts of the gambler by profession, and, having become an adept in his despicable science, to practise it habitually as a means of increasing my already enormous income at the expense of the weak minded among my fellow collegians .
i did not, for some weeks, strike, or otherwise violently ill use it; but gradually very gradually i came to look upon it with unutterable loathing, and to flee silently from its odious presence, as from the breath of a pestilence .
in his rivalry he might have been supposed actuated solely by a whimsical desire to thwart, astonish, or mortify myself; although there were times when i could not help observing, with a feeling made up of wonder, abasement, and pique, that he mingled with his injuries, his insults, or his contradictions, a certain most inappropriate, and assuredly most unwelcome affectionateness of manner .
 ''keeping now steadily in mind the points to which i have drawn your attention that peculiar voice, that unusual agility, and that startling absence of motive in a murder so singularly atrocious as this let us glance at the butchery itself .
over the upper portion of this huge window, extended the trellice work of an aged vine, which clambered up the massy walls of the turret .
but the case with which these variable fancies were entertained, and the very plausibility which each assumed, should have been understood as indicative rather of the difficulties than of the facilities which must attend elucidation .
his knees tottered beneath a load of years, and his entire frame quivered under the burthen .
on the hearth were thick tresses very thick tresses of grey human hair .
 ''that is another of your odd notions, '' said the prefect, who had a fashion of calling every thing  ''odd '' that was beyond his comprehension, and thus lived amid an absolute legion of  ''oddities . ''
once upon her feet, she gnashed her gums, brandished her arms, rolled up her sleeves, shook her fist in my face, and concluded the performance by tearing the cap from her head, and with it an immense wig of the most valuable and beautiful black hair, the whole of which she dashed upon the ground with a yell, and there trammpled and danced a fandango upon it, in an absolute ecstasy and agony of rage .
to observe attentively is to remember distinctly; and, so far, the concentrative chess player will do very well at whist; while the rules of hoyle themselves based upon the mere mechanism of the game are sufficiently and generally comprehensible .
in a city, fifteen years are no long period a child may be still a child in his third lustrum: but in a wilderness in so magnificent a wilderness as that old principality, fifteen years have a far deeper meaning .
the body having been encoffined, we two alone bore it to its rest .
others again among them may be mentioned the family physician did not hesitate in speaking of morbid melancholy, and hereditary ill health; while dark hints, of a more equivocal nature, were current among the multitude .
it was a dark night when i bade her good bye, and taking with me, as aides de camp, the three creditors who had given me so much trouble, we carried the balloon, with the car and accoutrements, by a roundabout way, to the station where the other articles were deposited .
was only funnin any how .
and now an indescribable uneasiness possessed me a species of nervous hesitation and tremor .
to a mind constituted like my own, the latter consideration is an evil .
i drew up to my eyes each of my hands, one after the other, and wondered what occurrence could have given rise to the swelling of the veins, and the horrible blackness of the fingernails .
the baron afterwards informed me that he had purposely thrown the treatise in hermann 's way two or three weeks before the adventure, and that he was satisfied, from the general tenor of his conversation, that he had studied it with the deepest attention, and firmly believed it to be a work of unusual merit .
i am now growing in years, and since i understand that shakespeare and mr  . emmons are deceased it is not impossible that i may even die.
you shall be my heir .
the villains have escaped for the time, but the police are upon their trail, and some of them will soon be taken . ''
and now, agathos, as we proceed, instruct me speak to me in the earth 's familiar tones .
 ''we have received one or two communications, the object of which is to fasten the crime of the late atrocity upon mennais; but as this gentleman has been fully exonerated by a loyal inquiry, and as the arguments of our several correspondents appear to be more zealous than profound, we do not think it advisable to make them public . ''
i am impelled, even in the teeth of a world of prejudice, to detail without comment the very remarkable substance of a colloquy, occurring between a sleep waker and myself .
the evening thus spent was unquestionably the most delicious of my life .
on our way home my companion stepped in for a moment at the office of one of the daily papers .
i would call forthwith upon the general himself, and demand, in explicit terms, a solution of this abominable piece of mystery .
rousseau nouvelle heloise .
as i imagined, the ship proves to be in a current; if that appellation can properly be given to a tide which, howling and shrieking by the white ice, thunders on to the southward with a velocity like the headlong dashing of a cataract .
if any person knew anything about brevet brigadier general john a     . b. c. smith, that person, it was clear to me, was miss tabitha t. we telegraphed a few signals, and then commenced, soto voce, a brisk tête à tête.
sing a thousand over again soho let us sing long life to our king, who knocked over a thousand so fine soho let us roar, he has given us more red gallons of gore than all syria can furnish of wine  ''do you hear that flourish of trumpets? ''
he might see, perhaps, one or two points with unusual clearness, but in so doing he, necessarily, lost sight of the matter as a whole .
we found it without much difficulty, when, dismissing her, i proceeded to examine the place .
omne ignotum pro magnifico .
they pressed they swarmed upon me in ever accumulating heaps .
he placed the needle at the wrong end of the tube, and drawing his breath strongly to puff the dart forward with force, drew the needle into his throat .
the glassy roll of the eye was changed for that expression of uneasy inward examination which is never seen except in cases of sleep waking, and which it is quite impossible to mistake .
in other conditions of mind i might have had courage to end my misery at once by a plunge into one of these abysses; but now i was the veriest of cowards .
the words  ''penny a liner, ''  ''mendicant, ''  ''scullion, '' and  ''cut throat, '' were epithets so intentionally inexpressive and equivocal, as to be worse than nothing when applied to the author of the very worst stanzas ever penned by one of the human race .
to ritzner, ever upon the lookout for the grotesque, his peculiarities had for a long time past afforded food for mystification .
a frenchman was cognizant of the murder .
they look very odd, very like something between a turkey cock and a dromedary .
  ''it is guido's own how could you have obtained it?
the elder partner of the firm, however, would allow me only one penny of the charge, and took it upon himself to show in what manner four of the same sized conveniences could be got out of a sheet of foolscap .
  ''belay that '' interrupted tarpaulin, astonished not more at the length of his companion's speech than at the nature of his refusal  ''belay that you tubber and i say, legs, none of your palaver my hull is still light, although i confess you yourself seem to be a little top heavy; and as for the matter of your share of the cargo, why rather than raise a squall i would find stowageroom for it myself, but ''  ''this proceeding, '' interposed the president,  ''is by no means in accordance with the terms of the mulct or sentence, which is in its nature median, and not to be altered or recalled .
brewster takes no notice of it whatever beyond a mere statement, we believe, that such is the fact .
the now ghastly pallor of the skin, and the now miraculous lustre of the eye, above all things startled and even awed me .
it was succeeded by a sad voice, which i had difficulty in recognising as that of the noble fortunato .
i could no longer doubt that we had been precipitate in our preparations that rowena still lived .
and the very enormity of this offence against all manly and honourable sentiment proved, beyond doubt, the main if not the sole reason of the impunity with which it was committed .
i could not see the figure of him who had aroused me .
now, hold out one of your hands, pompey, and let me step upon it thus .
 ''smith? '' said miss arabella, as she at length comprehended the purport of my query;  ''smith?
could i have judged, indeed, by the wild overstrained air of vivacity with which he harkened, or apparently harkened, to the words of the tale, i might well have congratulated myself upon the success of my design .
i saw i felt that i had perfect command of my senses and these senses now brought to my soul a world of novel and singular sensation .
before entering upon this subject it would be as well to give a brief history and description of the chess player for the benefit of such of our readers as may never have had an opportunity of witnessing mr  . maelzel 's exhibition.
and in these arrangements of the principia of human action, the spurzheimites, whether right or wrong, in part, or upon the whole, have but followed, in principle, the footsteps of their predecessors: deducing and establishing every thing from the preconceived destiny of man, and upon the ground of the objects of his creator .
it is our reasoner  's object merely to show that this body is not marie's .
i would have escorted her myself, but felt that, under the circumstances of my introduction to the house, i had better remain unobserved where i was .
i now began to feel my way in the science, and soon came to understand that, provided a man had a nose sufficiently conspicuous he might, by merely following it, arrive at a lionship .
in the lucid intervals of my infirmity, her calamity, indeed, gave me pain, and, taking deeply to heart that total wreck of her fair and gentle life, i did not fail to ponder, frequently and bitterly, upon the wonder working means by which so strange a revolution had been so suddenly brought to pass .
a male and a female nurse were in attendance; but i did not feel myself altogether at liberty to engage in a task of this character with no more reliable witnesses than these people, in case of sudden accident, might prove .
 ''her decease, '' he said, with a bitterness which i can never forget,  ''would leave him him the hopeless and the frail the last of the ancient race of the ushers . ''
he was playing at   'puff the dart,' which is played with a long needle inserted in some worsted, and blown at a target through a tin tube .
having reached, in its former course, about the twentieth parallel of southern latitude, it turned off suddenly, at an acute angle, to the eastward, and thus proceeded throughout the day, keeping nearly, if not altogether, in the exact plane of the lunar elipse .
to me, they have presented little but horror to many they will seem less terrible than barroques .
he had scarcely finished the sentence, before loud shouts and imprecations were heard beneath the windows; and, immediately afterward, it became evident that some persons outside were endeavoring to gain entrance into the room .
this being done, there will be no difficulty whatever .
his mouth was puckered and dimpled into an expression of ghastly affability, and his eyes, as indeed the eyes of all at table, were glazed over with the fumes of intoxication .
and, sure enough, one fine morning the keepers found themselves pinioned hand and foot, and thrown into the cells, where they were attended, as if they were the lunatics, by the lunatics themselves, who had usurped the offices of the keepers . ''
an important event then happened of which the following blackwood article, in the tone heterogeneous, is the substance and result .
for a few short days they would not believe an assertion which their intellect so long employed among worldly considerations could not in any manner grasp .
we steered due west; but as the trailing of the buoys materially impeded our progress, and we had the balloon abundantly at command, either for ascent or descent, we first threw out fifty pounds of ballast, and then wound up by means of a windlass so much of the rope as brought it quite clear of the sea .
this i did, upon the spot, in a review of the original  ''oil of bob, '' occupying thirty six pages of the  ''lollipop . ''
i must bring this paper, perforce, to a conclusion, and this i cannot do better than by a summary notice of a very decent, but rather elaborate diddle, of which our own city was made the theatre, not very long ago, and which was subsequently repeated with success, in other still more verdant localities of the union .
at length the idea is entertained of uniting the force of a great number of the birds, with a view to raising the author himself .
we came at length to the foot of the descent, and stood together on the damp ground of the catacombs of the montresors .
the mortal body had been at length stricken with the hand of the deadly decay .
i was then only twenty years old .
certain accessory points of the design served well to convey the idea that this excavation lay at an exceeding depth below the surface of the earth .
soon after its completion it was exhibited in presburg, paris, vienna, and other continental cities .
let us admit the first elopement to have resulted in a quarrel between the lovers, and the return home of the betrayed .
i assure you that it is of the highest importance .
as we were almost constantly on a wind, and the breeze was not a little stiff, the ship heeled to leeward very considerably; and whenever her starboard side was to leeward, the sliding door between the cabins slid open, and so remained, nobody taking the trouble to get up and shut it .
but it was all to no purpose .
it was very long, narrow, and dismally low, with pointed gothic windows and a ceiling of oak .
consequent upon this discovery, new evidence appeared .
i chafed and bathed the temples and the hands, and used every exertion which experience, and no little medical reading, could suggest .
he described her as of surpassing beauty, wit, and accomplishment .
no portion of the masonry had fallen; and there appeared to be a wild inconsistency between its still perfect adaptation of parts, and the crumbling condition of the individual stones .
i had hardly finished reading the  ''toad, '' when a friend placed in my hands a copy of the  ''mole, '' a daily, enjoying high reputation for the keenness of its perception about matters in general, and for the open, honest, above ground style of its editorials .
 ''not long ago, '' said he at length,  ''and i could have guided you on this route as well as the youngest of my sons; but, about three years past, there happened to me an event such as never happened to mortal man or at least such as no man ever survived to tell of and the six hours of deadly terror which i then endured have broken me up body and soul .
the address, however, was uppermost, and, the contents thus unexposed, the letter escaped notice .
people who were formerly, the very best customers in the world, had now not a moment of time to think of us at all .
in neither case could he act with the requisite ease or precision .
i could no longer doubt that i reposed within a coffin at last .
upon the door being opened, mademoiselle l  . appeared and took from his hands one of the bags, while the old lady relieved him of the other.
 ''treason '' screamed the arch duchess ana pest .
after an unquiet slumber of some three or four hours ' duration, we arose, as if by preconcert, to make examination of our treasure .
sweet creature she too has sacrificed herself in my behalf .
yet, for a while, i saw; but with how terrible an exaggeration i saw the lips of the black robed judges .
this, too, when it was evident that the most egregious and unpardonable of all conceivable tricks, whimsicalities and buffooneries were brought about, if not directly by him, at least plainly through his intermediate agency or connivance .
i sat tete baissée, as they have it in the kickapoo, bowing my head close to the alabaster page .
attempt, now, to place all your fingers, at the same time, in the respective impressions as you see them . ''
floating gently onward, but with a velocity slightly augmented, the voyager, after many short turns, finds his progress apparently barred by a gigantic gate or rather door of burnished gold, elaborately carved and fretted, and reflecting the direct rays of the now fast sinking sun with an effulgence that seems to wreath the whole surrounding forest in flames .
that the secret has not been divulged, is the very best of proof that it is, in fact, a secret .
i bade them search search well .
what i have said above upon this topic must suffice .
 ''but how did you proceed? ''  ''i held the vellum again to the fire, after increasing the heat; but nothing appeared .
i made no doubt that i could readily displace the bricks at this point, insert the corpse, and wall the whole up as before, so that no eye could detect any thing suspicious .
oh, you would have laughed to see how cunningly i thrust it in i moved it slowly very, very slowly, so that i might not disturb the old man 's sleep .
in this rim was screwed the large tube of the condenser, the body of the machine being, of course, within the chamber of gum elastic .
the anticipations of the shopkeeper were realized, and his rooms soon became notorious through the charms of the sprightly grisette .
my next step was to look for the beast which had been the cause of so much wretchedness; for i had, at length, firmly resolved to put it to death .
the figures of fiends in aspects of menace, with skeleton forms, and other more really fearful images, overspread and disfigured the walls .
there were periods in each of the five or six centuries immediately preceding our dissolution, when arose some vigorous intellect, boldly contending for those principles whose truth appears now, to our disenfranchised reason, so utterly obvious principles which should have taught our race to submit to the guidance of the natural laws, rather than attempt their control .
 ''dear duchess, with all my heart . ''
each likens it not to the voice of an individual of any nation with whose language he is conversant but the converse .
there were the same luxurious smoothness of surface, the same scarcely perceptible tendency to the aquiline, the same harmoniously curved nostrils speaking the free spirit .
i gazed at this queenly apparition for at least half an hour, as if i had been suddenly converted to stone; and, during this period, i felt the full force and truth of all that has been said or sung concerning  ''love at first sight . ''
this was free only from the elbow to the hand .
he exhibited a model of his invention at the polytechnic institution .
a gentleman, with his wife and daughter, engaged, about dusk, the services of six young men, who were idly rowing a boat to and fro near the banks of the seine, to convey him across the river .
against all attacks upon his purse he made the most sturdy defence; but the amount extorted from him, at last, was generally in direct ratio with the length of the siege and the stubbornness of the resistance .
 ''in this i am not sure that you are wrong, '' observed dr  . templeton,  ''but proceed.
swooning, i staggered to the opposite wall .
the scarabæus hung quite clear of any branches, and, if allowed to fall, would have fallen at our feet .
who is that secret lover, i ask, of whom, at least, most of the relatives know nothing?
i asked myself the question aloud, and the whispering echoes of the chamber answered me,  ''what was it? ''
 ''the salt '' i ejaculated .
i need not go over the details of von kempelen 's confession as far as it went and release, for these are familiar to the public .
 ''while i was busied in reflection, my eyes fell upon a narrow ledge in the eastern face of the rock, perhaps a yard below the summit upon which i stood .
in these excursions he was usually accompanied by an old negro, called jupiter, who had been manumitted before the reverses of the family, but who could be induced, neither by threats nor by promises, to abandon what he considered his right of attendance upon the footsteps of his young  ''massa will . ''
hark here comes a troop of a similar description .
i looked; and a numbness, an iciness of feeling instantly pervaded my frame .
please to write      'und sterb'ich doch, no sterb'ich denn durch sie durch sie'  ''that's german from schiller .
superfluities in height were, however, more than accounted for by deficiencies in other respects .
in his heart he wished for nothing more ardently than our union .
every one has been to the city of edinburgh .
any time the next morning you can call at the watch house and swear an assault . ''
moreover, my dungeon, as well as all the condemned cells at toledo, had stone floors, and light was not altogether excluded .
but it must be borne in mind that the form of the moon  's orbit being an ellipse of eccentricity amounting to no less than   . of the major semi axis of the ellipse itself, and the earth's centre being situated in its focus, if i could, in any manner, contrive to meet the moon, as it were, in its perigee, the above mentioned distance would be materially diminished.
the blackness of eternal night encompassed me .
i grew, day by day, more moody, more irritable, more regardless of the feelings of others .
it would contain more than forty thousand cubic feet of gas; would take me up easily, i calculated, with all my implements, and, if i managed rightly, with one hundred and seventy five pounds of ballast into the bargain .
it was not, however, until long after this time that the rays of the setting sun ceased to illumine the balloon; and this circumstance, although of course fully anticipated, did not fail to give me an infinite deal of pleasure .
while thus occupied, she probably swooned, or possibly died, through sheer terror; and, in failing, her shroud became entangled in some iron work which projected interiorly .
these words are sufficiently vague, but differ materially from those of le commerciel .
and the flames of the tripods expired .
these stones had all been broken from their settings and thrown loose in the chest .
but as there is really no end to diddling, so there would be none to this essay, were i even to hint at half the variations, or inflections, of which this science is susceptible .
the widow of the unfortunate count berlifitzing was even heard to express a hope  ''that the baron might be at home when he did not wish to be at home, since he disdained the company of his equals; and ride when he did not wish to ride, since he preferred the society of a horse . ''
i believe, sir, that in this house it has been given a fair trial, if ever in any .
having completed them to my satisfaction, i again looked toward the time piece and was half inclined to believe in the possibility of odd accidents when i found that, instead of my ordinary fifteen or twenty minutes, i had been dozing only three; for it still wanted seven and twenty of the appointed hour .
while we were endeavoring to regain it, our attention being completely absorbed, we became involved in a strong current of wind from the east, which bore us, with rapidly increasing force, towards the atlantic .
at the end of a week, however, she re appeared at her customary comptoir, as well as ever, with the exception of a slight paleness not altogether usual .
at this moment the door gently opens to the sound of soft music, and lo the most delicate of birds is before the most enamored of men but what inexpressible dismay now overshadows the countenance of the duc?   ''horreur chien baptiste l'oiseau ah, bon dieu cet oiseau modeste que tu as déshabillé de ses plumes, et que tu as servi sans papier '' it is superfluous to say more: the duc expired in a paroxysm of disgust .
the day was about to dawn; and it was thought expedient, at length, to proceed at once to the dissection .
this thirst it appeared to be the design of my persecutors to stimulate: for the food in the dish was meat pungently seasoned .
the cellars of the chateau were well stocked with wine; and these madmen are just the devils that know how to drink it .
that he was overcome by the wine just swallowed, was the idea which most readily presented itself; and, rather with a view to the preservation of my own character in the eyes of my associates, than from any less interested motive, i was about to insist, peremptorily, upon a discontinuance of the play, when some expressions at my elbow from among the company, and an ejaculation evincing utter despair on the part of glendinning, gave me to understand that i had effected his total ruin under circumstances which, rendering him an object for the pity of all, should have protected him from the ill offices even of a fiend .
but at the epoch of which i speak, the analogy which a casual observation of a star offered to the conclusions i had already drawn, struck me with the force of positive conformation, and i then finally made up my mind to the course which i afterwards pursued .
they presented the broken appearance which is manifested when a stiff paper, having been once folded and pressed with a folder, is refolded in a reversed direction, in the same creases or edges which had formed the original fold .
the mountain trembled to its very base, and the rock rocked .
it is evident, however, that the gravities of the body, and of the bulk of water displaced, are very nicely balanced, and that a trifle will cause either to preponderate .
it was radiant with the quizzical expression which was its natural character, but which i had never seen it assume except when we were alone together, and when he unbent himself freely .
the conclusion here is absurd .
 ''i very much fear it is so, '' replied monsieur maillard, now becoming excessively pale .
 ''the scrap of paper, you mean, '' said i  .  ''no; it had much of the appearance of paper, and at first i supposed it to be such, but when i came to draw upon it, i discovered it, at once, to be a piece of very thin parchment.
i must wait until i see the beetle itself, if i am to form any idea of its personal appearance . ''
if many were prevented from adventuring to california, by the mere apprehension that gold would so materially diminish in value, on account of its plentifulness in the mines there, as to render the speculation of going so far in search of it a doubtful one what impression will be wrought now, upon the minds of those about to emigrate, and especially upon the minds of those actually in the mineral region, by the announcement of this astounding discovery of von kempelen?
there were no less than ten windows in all .
he quoted turgot, price, priestly, condorcet, de stael, and the  ''ambitious student in ill health . ''
now, with a simpleton a degree above the first, he would have reasoned thus:  'this fellow finds that in the first instance i guessed odd, and, in the second, he will propose to himself, upon the first impulse, a simple variation from even to odd, as did the first simpleton; but then a second thought will suggest that this is too simple a variation, and finally he will decide upon putting it even as before .
no definition had spoken of the landscape gardener as of the poet; yet it seemed to my friend that the creation of the landscape garden offered to the proper muse the most magnificent of opportunities .
among her numerous suitors was julien bossuet, a poor litterateur, or journalist of paris .
his end had plainly forgotten his beginning, like the government of trinculo .
these prints, no doubt, surpass every thing in loudness of pretension, but, in all other points, give us the   'lollipop' how this celebrated magazine can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses, is more than we can comprehend .
there were the two sisters, the bride, and the artist the latter in one of his customary fits of moody misanthropy .
indeed, to judge from the progression of the numbers indicating my various altitudes, respectively, at different periods, between six a     .m. on the second of april, and twenty minutes before nine a.m. of the same day at which time the barometer ran down, it might be fairly inferred that the balloon had now, at four o 'clock in the morning of april the seventh, reached a height of not less, certainly, than , miles above the surface of the sea.
and, indeed, i had now every reason to be terrified .
we learn that mr    . mumblethumb received no less than fifty cents for his late   'monody in a mud puddle.'  ''among the original contributors to the present number we notice, besides the eminent editor, mr. crab, such men as snob, slyass, and mumblethumb.
as before, it was in vain that i, at first, endeavoured to appreciate or understand what was taking place .
they had deposited me in the coffin .
these things were a hobby which he rode to the death .
in feeling my way i had found many angles, and thus deduced an idea of great irregularity; so potent is the effect of total darkness upon one arousing from lethargy or sleep the angles were simply those of a few slight depressions, or niches, at odd intervals .
its breadth at no point exceeds a quarter of a mile .
the cat followed me down the steep stairs, and, nearly throwing me headlong, exasperated me to madness .
with a presence of mind truly parisian, she took the cue at once, and, to greet me, held out the most bewitchingly little of hands .
yet we met; and fate bound us together at the altar, and i never spoke of passion nor thought of love .
i shall make two divisions: first, piquant facts for the manufacture of similes, and, second, piquant expressions to be introduced as occasion may require .
his family was one of the most illustrious of the empire .
the general furniture was profuse, comfortless, antique, and tattered .
and am i not now dying a victim to the horror and the mystery of the wildest of all sublunary visions?
the fury of the beast, who no doubt bore still in mind the dreaded whip, was instantly converted into fear .
in his summing up it seemed evident to me that the reasoner had not even succeeded in convincing himself .
in all that i endured there was no physical suffering but of moral distress an infinitude .
in fact, amazement must have fairly deprived me of my senses, when i could not see the vast difference, in appearance, between the surface below me, and the surface of my mother earth .
i married early, and was happy to find in my wife a disposition not uncongenial with my own .
 ''but what purpose had you, '' i asked,  ''in replacing the letter by a fac simile?
he then came home, talked eternally, and played upon the french horn .
he admitted but four elementary principles, or more strictly, conditions of bliss .
she grieved to think that, having entombed her in the valley of the many colored grass, i would quit forever its happy recesses, transferring the love which now was so passionately her own to some maiden of the outer and everyday world .
upon recovering, i at once started to my feet, trembling convulsively in every fibre .
   ''were it my purpose, '' continued dupin,  ''merely to make out a case against this passage of l'etoile's argument, i might safely leave it where it is .
in an instant afterward, this man came forth, accosted my companion by name, shook him cordially by the hand, and begged him to alight .
jupiter had with him the scythe and spades the whole of which he insisted upon carrying more through fear, it seemed to me, of trusting either of the implements within reach of his master, than from any excess of industry or complaisance .
especially, there is nothing to be made in this way without method .
i was not satisfied, however, with this, but continued the manipulations vigorously, and with the fullest exertion of the will, until i had completely stiffened the limbs of the slumberer, after placing them in a seemingly easy position .
no serious accident occurred .
et chez j  . goignard, au premier pilier de la grand 'salle du palais, proche les consultations, mdcxlvii. ''
now, the assassination might have taken place upon the river 's brink, or on the river itself; and, thus, the throwing the corpse in the water might have been resorted to, at any period of the day or night, as the most obvious and most immediate mode of disposal .
his natural thought would have been to cast from him, as far as possible, all that had held connection with his crime .
all this, it must be acknowledged, was very severe upon  ''oppodeldoc '' but the unkindest cut was putting the word sy in small caps .
from between them, upon every proper occasion, issued a voice of surpassing clearness, melody, and strength .
my fancy grew charnel, i talked  ''of worms, of tombs, and epitaphs . ''
he was bled, and many other of the ordinary means of relief were adopted .
but the gang which has drawn upon itself the pointed animadversion, although the somewhat tardy and very suspicious evidence of madame deluc, is the only gang which is represented by that honest and scrupulous old lady as having eaten her cakes and swallowed her brandy, without putting themselves to the trouble of making her payment .
 ''what will you take for it? ''
in the strange anomaly of my existence, feelings with me, had never been of the heart, and my passions always were of the mind .
 ''alexandre etienne, surgeon, was called with m  . dumas to view the bodies.
 ''you surprise me, '' i said,  ''by these opinions, which have been contradicted by the voice of the world .
as i put a portion of it within my lips, there rushed to my mind a half formed thought of joy of hope .
the effect was beautiful to behold .
the character of gorge was maintained only in the height and parallelism of the shores; it was lost altogether in their other traits .
this he was in the act of uplifting, for what purpose i am at a loss to imagine, when, all at once, there came a benign smile over his features, and he sank placidly back in his chair .
remember that, beyond the naked fact of the catastrophe itself, i know nothing .
he had vanished, no one could tell how; and not even the ghost of him has ever been seen since .
 ''pauline dubourg, laundress, deposes that she has known both the deceased for three years, having washed for them during that period .
was certain it was not french .
it was amusing to think that creatures so diminutive as the lunarians, and bearing so little resemblance to humanity, yet evinced a mechanical ingenuity so much superior to our own .
with this answer he seemed flattered, and sat down to write a note to the baron .
 ''by casting your eye down almost any page of any book in the world, you will be able to perceive at once a host of little scraps of either learning or bel espritism, which are the very thing for the spicing of a blackwood article .
    'delight of the universe,' thou art in a sad predicament 'glory of the east,' thou art in danger of mastication therefore never regard so piteously thy tail; it will undoubtedly be draggled in the mud, and for this there is no help .
i was lost in reveries of death, and the idea of premature burial held continual possession of my brain .
i shall not die of a cough . ''
was i aware was i fully aware of the discrepancy between us?
the depth lies in the valleys where we seek her, and not upon the mountain tops where she is found .
 ''jupiter, '' cried he, without heeding me in the least,  ''do you hear me? ''  ''yes, massa will, hear you ebber so plain . ''
in the one instance, the dreamer, or enthusiast, being interested by an object usually not frivolous, imperceptibly loses sight of this object in a wilderness of deductions and suggestions issuing therefrom, until, at the conclusion of a day dream often replete with luxury, he finds the incitamentum, or first cause of his musings, entirely vanished and forgotten .
it was torn nearly in two, across the middle as if a design, in the first instance, to tear it entirely up as worthless, had been altered, or stayed, in the second .
we cannot help perceiving abundance of filth in every kennel, and, were it not for the over powering fumes of idolatrous incense, i have no doubt we should find a most intolerable stench .
i knew the steady philosophy of the man too well to apprehend any scruples from him; and he had no relatives in america who would be likely to interfere .
in the first place i considered the manner in which the parchment had come into my possession .
to be sure they spoke of confining me in a strait jacket but, good god they never suspected me of having lost my breath .
the highest among them does not exceed three and three quarter miles in perpendicular elevation; but a map of the volcanic districts of the campi phlegraei would afford to your excellencies a better idea of their general surface than any unworthy description i might think proper to attempt .
 ''an outrage of the most atrocious character was perpetrated near this city the day before yesterday .
there was, i knew, not a second to be lost .
get thee up come with me into the outer night, and let me unfold to thee the graves .
the early writers of treatises on the automaton, seem not to have observed the matter at all, and have no reference to it .
it is in the former mode, however, and habitually, that you have already consented to wear it for my sake . ''
i have spoken of two openings into the vale .
upon a dim, warm, misty day, toward the close of november, and during the strange interregnum of the seasons which in america is termed the indian summer, mr  . bedloe departed as usual for the hills.
in the middle of this extent was a depression, level with the ordinary floor of the valley .
he had composed a tragedy which set the whole country in a guffaw, and a farce which deluged the universe in tears .
i believe that the world has never seen and that, unless through some series of accidents goading the noblest order of mind into distasteful exertion, the world will never see that full extent of triumphant execution, in the richer domains of art, of which the human nature is absolutely capable .
had a fine view of the five neptunian asteroids, and watched with much interest the putting up of a huge impost on a couple of lintels in the new temple at daphnis in the moon .
cxxl, nxw cxxl dx be cxxl, yxu fxxl nxne xf yxur crxwing, xld cxck dxn    't frxwn sx dxn't dxn't hxllx, nxr hxwl, nxr grxwl, nxr bxw wxw wxw gxxd lxrd, jxhn, hxw yxu dx lxxk txld yxu sx, yxu knxw, but stxp rxlling yxur gxxse xf an xld pxll abxut sx, and gx and drxwn yxur sxrrxws in a bxwl' the uproar occasioned by this mystical and cabalistical article, is not to be conceived .
i saw them now even more unequivocally than i beheld them then .
for some time his countenance had been losing the florid tinge lent it by the wine; but now, to my astonishment, i perceived that it had grown to a pallor truly fearful .
 ''it is done it is most cheerfully agreed .
 ''at this stage of my reflections i endeavored to remember, and did remember, with entire distinctness, every incident which occurred about the period in question .
coincidences ten times as remarkable as this the delivery of the money, and murder committed within three days upon the party receiving it, happen to all of us every hour of our lives, without attracting even momentary notice .
a very few days sufficed, however, to merge even such feelings in sentiments more unendurable we could no longer apply to the strange orb any accustomed thoughts .
the feeblest intellect had derived vigor from excessive interest .
the arms, the bosom, and even the ends of the radiant hair melted imperceptibly into the vague yet deep shadow which formed the back ground of the whole .
but as my gondola arrived opposite the mouth of the canal san marco, a female voice from its recesses broke suddenly upon the night, in one wild, hysterical, and long continued shriek .
the dining room itself, although perhaps sufficiently comfortable and of good dimensions, had nothing too much of elegance about it .
he now rang the bell, and sent for a neighboring apothecary with whom to consult in the emergency .
 ''i know fellows, '' he says to himself,  ''who would just have put the goods under their arm, and walked off with a promise to call and pay the dollar as they came by in the afternoon . ''
the mixture was then ready for use .
it seems to be crowded with people perhaps there are three or four hundred passengers and yet it soars to an elevation of nearly a mile, looking down upon poor us with sovereign contempt .
was i not justifiable in supposing with m . valz, that this apparent condensation of volume has its origin in the compression of the same ethereal medium i have spoken of before, and which is only denser in proportion to its solar vicinity?
his reply is this and never pretends to be any thing else than this  ''because it is impossible to conceive that contradictories can both be true . ''
as hermann completed this equivocal sentence, all eyes were turned upon the baron .
by this time his pulse was imperceptible and his breathing was stertorous, and at intervals of half a minute .
it is necessary that there be no chance of interruption there must be sufficient time given us to elude pursuit i will give it to be understood that i shall visit and spend the day with my aunt at the rue des drômes i well tell st  . eustache not to call for me until dark in this way, my absence from home for the longest possible period, without causing suspicion or anxiety, will be accounted for, and i shall gain more time than in any other manner.
the windows were long, narrow, and pointed, and at so vast a distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible from within .
his head was stuck full of sable hearse plumes, which he nodded to and fro with a jaunty and knowing air; and, in his right hand, he held a huge human thigh bone, with which he appeared to have been just knocking down some member of the company for a song .
there was a rich widow disconsolate for the loss of her seventh husband, and to her wounded spirit i offered the balm of my vows .
and now my own casual self suggestion that i might possibly be fool enough to confess the murder of which i had been guilty, confronted me, as if the very ghost of him whom i had murdered and beckoned me on to death .
this point being settled, the prefect broke forth at once into explanations of his own views, interspersing them with long comments upon the evidence; of which latter we were not yet in possession .
he could not have failed to anticipate and events have proved that he did not fail to anticipate the waylayings to which he was subjected .
i lost not a moment, accordingly, in throwing overboard first my ballast, then my water kegs, then my condensing apparatus and gum elastic chamber, and finally every article within the car .
presently we heard him descending .
perseverance: your diddler perseveres .
positively, there could not have intervened the tenth part of a second between the disengagement of the basket and its absolute and total disappearance with all that it contained .
its brilliant flowers look like a fairy dream but its fierce volcanoes like the passions of a turbulent heart .
a vast quantity of wheels, pinions, and other cabalistic looking machinery stood opposite the hole, close to it; and through the hole there passed an iron rod from the machinery .
it seemed, therefore, that the effect of such escape was only sufficient to counterbalance the effect of some accelerating power .
by report she was known, i found, to all to many by sight but she had been in town only a few weeks, and there were very few, therefore, who claimed her personal acquaintance .
milder i half smiled in my agony as i thought of such application of such a term .
she had a crotchet, but it was instinct with common sense, and gave pleasure to all who had the honor of her acquaintance .
the beauty, if i may so call it, of his art mystifique, lay in that consummate ability resulting from an almost intuitive knowledge of human nature, and a most wonderful self possession, by means of which he never failed to make it appear that the drolleries he was occupied in bringing to a point, arose partly in spite, and partly in consequence of the laudable efforts he was making for their prevention, and for the preservation of the good order and dignity of alma mater .
for the most part their enthusiasm is adopted to suit the time and opportunity to practise imposture upon the british and austrian millionaires .
   ''consider now the circumstance that in the outer garment of the corpse when found, 'a slip, about a foot wide had been torn upward from the bottom hem to the waist wound three times round the waist, and secured by a sort of hitch in the back .'
and thus all narratives upon this topic have an interest profound; an interest, nevertheless, which, through the sacred awe of the topic itself, very properly and very peculiarly depends upon our conviction of the truth of the matter narrated .
free i had but escaped death in one form of agony, to be delivered unto worse than death in some other .
i paused for breath; and, in the meantime, an accident occurred of too momentous a nature in a moral, and also in a metaphysical point of view, to be passed over without notice .
in about an hour after my arrival, to be sure, a single shaded solar lamp was lit in the principal drawing room; and this apartment, i could thus see, was arranged with unusual good taste and even splendor; but two other rooms of the suite, and in which the company chiefly assembled, remained, during the whole evening, in a very agreeable shadow .
 ''indeed you astonish me ''  ''we found it, sir, '' he said, with a sigh,  ''absolutely necessary to return to the old usages .
pundit is in ecstacies .
with the best heart in the world, he contrived, through a predominant whim of contradiction, to earn for himself, among those who only knew him superficially, the character of a curmudgeon .
from my position, which was far above the level of the town, i could perceive its every nook and corner, as if delineated on a map .
in no instance before that of which i speak, have i known the habitual mystific escape the natural consequence of his manoevres an attachment of the ludicrous to his own character and person .
but, in fact, the one atrocity, known to be so committed, is, if any thing, evidence that the other, committed at a time nearly coincident, was not so committed .
the only question then is of the manner in which human agency is brought to bear .
he not only shut his mouth and wagged his tail, but absolutely offered me his paw afterward extending his civilities to ponto .
to the truth of this observation the burgomaster assented, and the matter was therefore at an end .
 ''my amazement was, of course, extreme .
my reward shall be this .
that which he considered chief, was strange to say the simple and purely physical one of free exercise in the open air .
we scudded with frightful velocity before the sea, and the water made clear breaches over us .
but if these machines were ingenious, what shall we think of the calculating machine of mr . babbage?
it was with difficulty that he reconciled his dreamy and incoherent feelings with the certainty of being awake .
how and why should i doubt it for an instant .
mr  . ellison 's first step regarded, of course, the choice of a locality, and scarcely had he commenced thinking on this point, when the luxuriant nature of the pacific islands arrested his attention.
say, rather, a point in the vague infinity .
a well dressed individual enters a shop, makes a purchase to the value of a dollar; finds, much to his vexation, that he has left his pocket book in another coat pocket; and so says to the shopkeeper  ''my dear sir, never mind; just oblige me, will you, by sending the bundle home?
my day book and ledger will evince this in a minute .
evil thoughts became my sole intimates the darkest and most evil of thoughts .
in this lies the principal security from inhumation .
pundit is the only conversible person on board; and he, poor soul can speak of nothing but antiquities .
nevertheless, about noon, a slight but remarkable agitation became apparent in the assembly: the clattering of ten thousand tongues succeeded; and, in an instant afterward, ten thousand faces were upturned toward the heavens, ten thousand pipes descended simultaneously from the corners of ten thousand mouths, and a shout, which could be compared to nothing but the roaring of niagara, resounded long, loudly, and furiously, through all the environs of rotterdam .
three years of folly, passed without profit, had but given me rooted habits of vice, and added, in a somewhat unusual degree, to my bodily stature, when, after a week of soulless dissipation, i invited a small party of the most dissolute students to a secret carousal in my chambers .
but we, the seven there assembled, having seen the shadow as it came out from among the draperies, dared not steadily behold it, but cast down our eyes, and gazed continually into the depths of the mirror of ebony .
have we not a perpetual inclination, in the teeth of our best judgment, to violate that which is law, merely because we understand it to be such?
the englishman thinks it the voice of a german, and   'does not understand german .'
wilson 's rebellion was to me a source of the greatest embarrassment; the more so as, in spite of the bravado with which in public i made a point of treating him and his pretensions, i secretly felt that i feared him, and could not help thinking the equality which he maintained so easily with myself, a proof of his true superiority; since not to be overcome cost me a perpetual struggle .
i made no doubt that the latter had been infected with some of the innumerable southern superstitions about money buried, and that his phantasy had received confirmation by the finding of the scarabæus, or, perhaps, by jupiter 's obstinacy in maintaining it to be  ''a bug of real gold . ''
the criticism which says, of sculpture or portraiture, that here nature is to be exalted or idealized rather than imitated, is in error .
putting on a mask of black silk, and drawing a roquelaire closely about my person, i suffered him to hurry me to my palazzo .
mr  . blackwood has a pair of tailor 's shears, and three apprentices who stand by him for orders.
 ''oh, shocking '' groaned the earl .
with him there is no determinate progression .
the slightest deviations from the true proportion and these deviations were omni prævalent affected me just as violations of abstract truth were wont, on earth, to affect the moral sense .
his ordinary manner had vanished .
this being done, there is no reason why the body of the man may not resume its former situation for the cupboard is again so dark as to defy scrutiny .
there are surely other worlds than this other thoughts than the thoughts of the multitude other speculations than the speculations of the sophist .
there was a sound at the moment as if of several persons struggling a scraping and scuffling sound .
 ''the result was precisely what i had hoped it might be .
thus, when g detailed to us his mode of searching the premises at the hotel d , i felt entire confidence in his having made a satisfactory investigation so far as his labors extended . ''
yet, henceforward art thou also dead dead to the world, to heaven and to hope in me didst thou exist and, in my death, see by this image, which is thine own, how utterly thou hast murdered thyself . ''
upon its front were characters engraven in the stone; and i walked through the morass of water lilies, until i came close unto the shore, that i might read the characters upon the stone .
miss tabitha turnip propagated that report through sheer envy .
for several years i had been subject to attacks of the singular disorder which physicians have agreed to term catalepsy, in default of a more definitive title .
he is name de napoleon bonaparte froissart, and i suppose you say dat dat, too, is not von ver respectable name . ''
i handed my adored wife out, and ordered breakfast forthwith .
the revolution itself must, of course, have taken place in an easy and gradual manner, and it is by no means clear that, had i even been awake at the time of the occurrence, i should have been made aware of it by any internal evidence of an inversion that is to say, by any inconvenience or disarrangement, either about my person or about my apparatus .
she presented all the ordinary appearances of death .
at paris, just after dark one gusty evening in the autumn of , i was enjoying the twofold luxury of meditation and a meerschaum, in company with my friend c    . auguste dupin, in his little back library, or book closet, au troisiême, no. , rue dunôt, faubourg st. germain.
you have spoken nothing, my oinos, for which pardon is to be demanded .
ven i go marry my segonde usbande, monsieur lalande, at dat time i had de portraite take for my daughter by my first usbande, monsieur moissart ''  ''moissart '' said i .  ''yes, moissart, '' said she, mimicking my pronunciation, which, to speak the truth, was none of the best,  ''and vat den?
we copy the following account of it from the letters before mentioned of dr   . b., who derived his information principally from the edinburgh encyclopaedia.
 ''of chantilly, '' said he,  ''why do you pause?
 ''about a foot below one of the side windows was a circular opening, eight inches in diameter, and fitted with a brass rim adapted in its inner edge to the windings of a screw .
as soon as he had gammoned him sufficiently, he let him out, and sent him about his business . ''
there are some passages of his description, nevertheless, which may be quoted for their details, although their effect is exceedingly feeble in conveying an impression of the spectacle .
any one so constituted will readily so conduct himself, upon occasion of real excitement, as to render himself liable to suspicion on the part of the over acute, or the ill disposed .
in taking leave of me, mr   . b. made a proposition for the purchase of the paper when written; but as he could offer me only fifty guineas a sheet, i thought it better to let our society have it, than sacrifice it for so paltry a sum.
the rubbish on the floor was picked up with the minutest care .
his reputation so he said with a peculiarly parisian air was at stake .
in my first attempts at composition i found the stanzas to  ''the oil of bob '' rather a draw back than otherwise .
to return was out of the question, and no time was to be lost, as their pursuers were close upon their heels .
 ''ah, hereupon turns the whole mystery; although the secret, at this point, i had comparatively little difficulty in solving .
there can be no doubt that the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition for why should i not so term it?
by eleven, very little labor was necessary at the apparatus; and at twelve o 'clock, with some hesitation, i ventured to unscrew the tourniquet, when, finding no inconvenience from having done so, i finally threw open the gum elastic chamber, and unrigged it from around the car .
it was possible, i thought, that, concealed in some obscure corner, or lurking in some closet or drawer, might be found the lost object of my inquiry .
the truth is, i never dabbled in flashy matters, but jogged on in the good old sober routine of the calling a calling in which i should, no doubt, have remained to the present hour, but for a little accident which happened to me in the prosecution of one of the usual business operations of the profession .
as soon as i sufficiently recovered my senses to comprehend the terrific predicament in which i stood or rather hung, i exerted all the power of my lungs to make that predicament known to the æronaut overhead .
so far good but let us turn over another paper .
the country people in the neighborhood visitors coming to see the establishment would have given the alarm . ''
i dwelt upon it with a pertinacity of attention as if, in so dwelling, i could arrest here the descent of the steel .
showed that, i should say, to some purpose, in the late tremendous swamp fight away down south, with the bugaboo and kickapoo indians . ''
we are not to be insulted with impunity . ''
i approached and saw, as if graven in bas relief upon the white surface, the figure of a gigantic cat .
these, although of ordinary width for some eight or ten feet above the hearths, will not admit, throughout their extent, the body of a large cat .
death approaches; and the shadow which foreruns him has thrown a softening influence over my spirit .
you perceive, then, why it is that i write you this letter it is on account of my ennui and your sins .
here is a watercolor drawing, which i should have shown you before, but which an unaccountable sentiment of horror has hitherto prevented me from showing . ''
but the little chap seized him at once by the nose; gave it a swing and a pull; clapped the big chapeau de bras upon his head; knocked it down over his eyes and mouth; and then, lifting up the big fiddle, beat him with it so long and so soundly, that what with the belfry man being so fat, and the fiddle being so hollow, you would have sworn that there was a regiment of double bass drummers all beating the devil 's tattoo up in the belfry of the steeple of vondervotteimittiss .
when i had accomplished this, it was fully midnight, and i requested the gentlemen present to examine m  . valdemar 's condition.
it had run down at seven o 'clock we were behind the time of the slack, and the whirl of the ström was in full fury  ''when a boat is well built, properly trimmed, and not deep laden, the waves in a strong gale, when she is going large, seem always to slip from beneath her which appears very strange to a landsman and this is what is called riding, in sea phrase .
there is a countenance which haunts me, turn as i will .
in looking around me for some subject by whose means i might test these particulars, i was brought to think of my friend, m  . ernest valdemar, the well known compiler of the  ''bibliotheca forensica, '' and author under the nom de plume of issachar marx of the polish versions of  ''wallenstein '' and  ''gargantua. ''
in the same way, the angle formed by the rope with the vertical axis of the machine, indicates the velocity .
 ''henri duval, a neighbor, and by trade a silver smith, deposes that he was one of the party who first entered the house .
we french are not nearly so punctilious as you americans, and i shall have no difficulty in smuggling you in, in the character of an old acquaintance . ''
however it might be just as well to roll him once or twice in the gutter, and then put him in charge of the police .
mrs  . wyatt had been closely veiled; and when she raised her veil, in acknowledging my bow, i confess that i was very profoundly astonished.
i was unwilling to trust myself with a race of people who had offered, to the cursory glance i had taken, so many points of vague novelty, doubt, and apprehension .
i mentioned some time ago the bending of a studding sail .
yet, strange to say, i beheld vast level regions of a character decidedly alluvial, although by far the greater portion of the hemisphere in sight was covered with innumerable volcanic mountains, conical in shape, and having more the appearance of artificial than of natural protuberance .
but perhaps it would be as well that he should call again .
it is a matter of course .
as his argument is obviously an ex parte one, he should, at least, have left this matter out of sight; for had any one been known to see marie, say on monday, or on tuesday, the interval in question would have been much reduced, and, by his own ratiocination, the probability much diminished of the corpse being that of the grisette .
the magic of a lovely form in woman the necromancy of female gracefulness was always a power which i had found it impossible to resist, but here was grace personified, incarnate, the beau ideal of my wildest and most enthusiastic visions .
when we saw them from the rear of the house, they were both about half open that is to say, they stood off at right angles from the wall .
his brow was of the coldness of ice .
to tear a piece off from such fabric, two distinct forces, in different directions, will be, in almost every case, required .
  ''no what? '' said his majesty  ''come, sir, strip ''  ''strip, indeed very pretty i' faith no, sir, i shall not strip .
there was much of the beautiful, much of the wanton, much of the bizarre, something of the terrible, and not a little of that which might have excited disgust .
 ''und you ave pelief in me, te angel of te odd? '' i nodded again .
but these struggles and these gasps would not occur in the body   'thrown into the water immediately after death by violence .'
notwithstanding the good offices of the doctor, and the strenuous exertions of the association to get itself into notice, it met with no very great success until i joined it .
but i must put you au fait to the details necessary in composing what may be denominated a genuine blackwood article of the sensation stamp the kind which you will understand me to say i consider the best for all purposes .
although i pronounced, with great promptness, that the true title was man friday, and not by any means man fred, yet when i returned to seek mrs .
this morrow at last came, that is to say, a day finally dawned upon a long and weary night of impatience; and then the hours until  ''one '' were snail paced, dreary, and innumerable .
shortly after sunrise, i found myself accordingly at his palazzo, one of those huge structures of gloomy, yet fantastic pomp, which tower above the waters of the grand canal in the vicinity of the rialto .
my friends are about holding a little musical levee .
at this impatience she smiled .
in the morning i had been reading glover      's  ''leonidas, '' wilkie's  ''epigoniad, '' lamartine's  ''pilgrimage, '' barlow's  ''columbiad, '' tuckermann's  ''sicily, '' and griswold's  ''curiosities ''; i am willing to confess, therefore, that i now felt a little stupid .
the elastic nature of the clasp garter is self demonstration of the unusualness of the abbreviation .
thus it is evident that we can assign no period, with any thing like accuracy, at which the corpse shall rise through decomposition .
it is the loveliest thing in creation ''  ''what?
whether he professes to play chess or not, we are not informed .
i saw that the crescent was designed to cross the region of the heart .
this one consisted in a forehead so unusually and hideously lofty, as to have the appearance of a bonnet or crown of flesh superadded upon the natural head .
these people blinded themselves by details .
when they proceeded on the path of the ram, their course was scarcely as straight as a ram 's horn, for they never had an axiom which was an axiom at all .
the crew pace the deck with unquiet and tremulous step; but there is upon their countenances an expression more of the eagerness of hope than of the apathy of despair .
granting that on my passage i should meet with atmosphere essentially the same as at the surface of the earth, i conceived that, by means of the very ingenious apparatus of m  . grimm, i should readily be enabled to condense it in sufficient quantity for the purposes of respiration.
by the way, talking of latin, can any one tell me the meaning of quocunque or what is the meaning of modo?
he professed excessive astonishment, of course, but congratulated me most cordially, and proffered every assistance in his power .
in fact, the blood so long accumulating in the vessels of my head and throat, and which had hitherto buoyed up my spirits with madness and delirium, had now begun to retire within their proper channels, and the distinctness which was thus added to my perception of the danger, merely served to deprive me of the self possession and courage to encounter it .
the other exalted personages whom you behold are all of our family, and wear the insignia of the blood royal under the respective titles of         'his grace the arch duke pest iferous' 'his grace the duke pest ilential' 'his grace the duke tem pest' and 'her serene highness the arch duchess ana pest  .'  ''as regards, '' continued he,  ''your demand of the business upon which we sit here in council, we might be pardoned for replying that it concerns, and concerns alone, our own private and regal interest, and is in no manner important to any other than ourself.
conceive, closely congregated, a million of the largest and most resplendent tulips only thus can the reader get any idea of the picture i would convey .
last night had a fine view of alpha lyrae, whose disk, through our captain 's spy glass, subtends an angle of half a degree, looking very much as our sun does to the naked eye on a misty day .
was sure that they had no servant in employ .
in groping my way around the prison, i could not fail to encounter this rag upon completing the circuit .
in good time came to my rescue the spirit of despair, and, with frantic cries and struggles, i jerked my way bodily upwards, till at length, clutching with a vise like grip the long desired rim, i writhed my person over it, and fell headlong and shuddering within the car .
begging me to be seated, he entered at once upon the subject of my poem; but modesty will ever forbid me to repeat the thousand compliments which he lavished upon me .
this claim she resisted, and a judicial tribunal sustained her in her resistance, deciding that the peculiar circumstances, with the long lapse of years, had extinguished, not only equitably, but legally, the authority of the husband .
he had dipped in the  ''diable '' of abbé gualtier .
his sole thought is immediate escape .
it was very certain that i could not do without sleep; but i might easily bring myself to feel no inconvenience from being awakened at intervals of an hour during the whole period of my repose .
no more than any other talent, is that for music susceptible of complete enjoyment, where there is no second party to appreciate its exercise .
the ringing became more distinct: it continued and became more distinct: i talked more freely to get rid of the feeling: but it continued and gained definiteness until, at length, i found that the noise was not within my ears .
a murder so mysterious, and so perplexing in all its particulars, was never before committed in paris if indeed a murder has been committed at all .
 ''hem ahem rather civil that, i should say '' said the bundle, in one of the smallest, and altogether the funniest little voices, between a squeak and a whistle, that i ever heard in all the days of my existence .
this hope arose partly from memory, and partly from present observation .
the truth is, we are usually the recipients in such case . ''
i brought them, however, after some trouble, at right angles to the body of the buckle, and was glad to find them remain firm in that position .
i had never seen the good old negro look so dispirited, and i feared that some serious disaster had befallen my friend .
they lasted for several minutes probably ten .
the grass wore the deep tint of the cypress, and the heads of its blades hung droopingly, and hither and thither among it were many small unsightly hillocks, low and narrow, and not very long, that had the aspect of graves, but were not; although over and all about them the rue and the rosemary clambered .
he had never wronged me .
the spaniard       'is sure' that it was that of an englishman, but 'judges by the intonation' altogether, 'as he has no knowledge of the english .'
the panes here were scarlet a deep blood color .
to these quixotic notions some recent parisian publications, backed by three or four desperate and fatal conversation, during the greater part of the night, had run wild upon the all engrossing topic of the times .
to me, this article appears conclusive of little beyond the zeal of its inditer .
 ''oh, beautiful '' sighed her grace .
the ganzas, with whom he had become so familiar, were not really denizens of st  . helena, but of the moon.
my dress it was an easy matter to copy; my gait and general manner were, without difficulty, appropriated; in spite of his constitutional defect, even my voice did not escape him .
very good one, two, is this a good quarter?
in less than a minute the storm was upon us in less than two the sky was entirely overcast and what with this and the driving spray, it became suddenly so dark that we could not see each other in the smack .
i was much affected by the kindness of feeling towards me personally, which was evinced in this excellent advice of mr  . crab, and i did not fail to profit by it forthwith.
now i am not in any respect a genius, but a regular business man .
the color  '' here he turned to me  ''is really almost enough to warrant jupiter's idea .
thus passed away two lustra of her life, and as yet my daughter remained nameless upon the earth .
his repugnance to  ''the humanities '' had, also, much increased of late, by an accidental bias in favor of what he supposed to be natural science .
a natural accident, such as will happen now and then '' i gave the matter no further consideration, and at my usual hour retired to bed .
this was my first love so i felt it to be .
they rallied, fought madly, and retreated again .
the turk plays with his left hand .
when the machinery is wound up, the movements continue about an hour, during which time about fifty questions may be answered .
for the feeling is no affectation or chimera .
he also closes the drawer, and, finally, winds up the machine, by applying a key to an aperture in the left end the spectators ' left of the box .
however, as the captain said he could perceive no indication of danger, and as we were drifting in bodily to shore, he ordered the sails to be furled, and the anchor let go .
the chastity of ionia is offended by antediluvian devices, and the sphynxes of egypt are outstretched upon carpets of gold .
 ''and he really succeeded? ''
this, however, is a painful position, and cannot be long maintained .
the air becomes dissonant with wind instruments, and horrible with clamor of a million throats .
i now began very clearly to perceive that the object before me was nothing more nor less than my new acquaintance, brevet brigadier general john a    . b. c. smith.
there was a modern platonist .
an indefinite sense of awe, which at first sight of the navigators of the ship had taken hold of my mind, was perhaps the principle of my concealment .
yet as it lies some distance from any of the main roads, being in a somewhat out of the way situation, there are perhaps very few of my readers who have ever paid it a visit .
scarcely, in truth, is a graveyard ever encroached upon, for any purpose, to any great extent, that skeletons are not found in postures which suggest the most fearful of suspicions .
the pulse was barely perceptible .
demon eyes, of a wild and ghastly vivacity, glared upon me in a thousand directions, where none had been visible before, and gleamed with the lurid lustre of a fire that i could not force my imagination to regard as unreal .
it will be said, i am aware, that when we persist in acts because we feel we should not persist in them, our conduct is but a modification of that which ordinarily springs from the combativeness of phrenology .
 ''no, '' he said,  ''oh, no a member of my family my niece, and a most accomplished woman . ''
my outstretched hands at length encountered some solid obstruction .
but at length when the sun had utterly departed, the fay, now the mere ghost of her former self, went disconsolately with her boat into the region of the ebony flood, and that she issued thence at all i cannot say, for darkness fell over all things and i beheld her magical figure no more .
if there is any thing on earth i hate, it is a genius .
in search of a suitable place so situated, ellison travelled for several years, and i was permitted to accompany him .
i was greatly and immediately relieved, however, when i saw the lady merely hand the gentleman a play bill, without speaking, but the reader may form some feeble conception of my astonishment of my profound amazement my delirious bewilderment of heart and soul when, instantly afterward, having again glanced furtively around, she allowed her bright eyes to set fully and steadily upon my own, and then, with a faint smile, disclosing a bright line of her pearly teeth, made two distinct, pointed, and unequivocal affirmative inclinations of the head .
she did the pirouette to admiration whirling round upon her apex .
these journals may excel the     'lollipop' in outcry, but, in all other points, give us the 'lollipop' how this celebrated magazine can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses, is past comprehension .
the result, of course, did but prove how entirely the prey was in my toils; in less than an hour he had quadrupled his debt .
to think that there i was, opening the door, little by little, and he not even to dream of my secret deeds or thoughts .
the silent grasp of a few rough arms and all would have been over .
the country, it is well known, has become infested with cats so much so of late, that a petition for relief, most numerously and respectably signed, was brought before the legislature at its late memorable session .
could not distinguish the words uttered .
he, passionate, studious, austere, and having already a bride in his art; she a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full of glee; all light and smiles, and frolicsome as the young fawn; loving and cherishing all things; hating only the art which was her rival; dreading only the pallet and brushes and other untoward instruments which deprived her of the countenance of her lover .
as for  ''oppodeldoc, '' i began to experience compassion for the poor fellow .
legs to all this offered not the slightest resistance, but sat down as he was directed; while the gallant hugh, removing his coffin tressel from its station near the head of the table, to the vicinity of the little consumptive lady in the winding sheet, plumped down by her side in high glee, and pouring out a skull of red wine, quaffed it to their better acquaintance .
had kidd concealed his plunder for a time, and afterwards reclaimed it, the rumors would scarcely have reached us in their present unvarying form .
the one is to the other, as homer to  ''flaccus '' as a mastodon to a mouse as the tail of a comet to that of a pig .
i could not have stirred with it a feather if my life had been at issue, or sullied even the delicacy of a mirror .
stupified with terror, the young nobleman tottered to the door .
it was a mystery all insoluble; nor could i grapple with the shadowy fancies that crowded upon me as i pondered .
 ''but then i have no change for a hundred, and upon the whole, you had better  ''cast off there '' says the captain .
the same individual submitted to me, without being at all aware of my intentions, a method of constructing balloons from the membrane of a certain animal, through which substance any escape of gas was nearly an impossibility .
the paragraph beginning      'it is folly to suppose that the murder, etc  .,' however it appears as printed in l'etoile, may be imagined to have existed actually thus in the brain of its inditer 'it is folly to suppose that the murder, if murder was committed on the body, could have been committed soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight; it is folly, we say, to suppose all this, and to suppose at the same time, as we are resolved to suppose, that the body was not thrown in until after midnight' a sentence sufficiently inconsequential in itself, but not so utterly preposterous as the one printed.
so intense an expression of romance, perhaps i should call it, or of unworldliness, as that which gleamed from her deep set eyes, had never so sunk into my heart of hearts before .
and what means the singular prophecy of madame rogêt on the morning of marie 's departure?
they struck a solid wooden substance, which extended above my person at an elevation of not more than six inches from my face .
i computed, also, the height of the atmosphere which could refract light enough into its dark hemisphere to produce a twilight more luminous than the light reflected from the earth when the moon is about degrees from the new to be , paris feet; in this view, i supposed the greatest height capable of refracting the solar ray, to be , feet .
dr  . moneypenny made the title for us, and says he chose it because it sounded big like an empty rum puncheon.
i mean to say that the deity does not create .
and he would not see that the tints which he spread upon the canvas were drawn from the cheeks of her who sate beside him .
every thing was perfectly silent no groans or noises of any kind .
the fits grow successively more and more distinctive, and endure each for a longer term than the preceding .
you can say, for instance, that the chicken you were eating write an article about being choked to death by a chicken bone was not altogether aussi tendre que zaire .
hence it might be supposed, that at some times and not at others, there is a dense matter encompassing the moon wherein the rays of the stars are refracted .
in the absence of the sun they have a light from the earth equal to that of thirteen full unclouded moons .
it is well known that, during the week of her absence from le blanc 's parfumerie, she was in the company of a young naval officer, much noted for his debaucheries .
the left tibia much splintered, as well as all the ribs of the left side .
the opinions of arago are, of course, entitled to the greatest consideration; but he is by no means infallible; and what he says of bismuth, in his report to the academy, must be taken cum grano salis .
it is only when his next move is obvious, or when the game is so circumstanced that to a man in the automaton 's place there would be no necessity for reflection .
i heard them many, many days ago yet i dared not i dared not speak and now to night ethelred ha ha the breaking of the hermit 's door, and the death cry of the dragon, and the clangor of the shield say, rather, the rending of her coffin, and the grating of the iron hinges of her prison, and her struggles within the coppered archway of the vault oh whither shall i fly?
night approached, and we were overtaken by a storm .
assured of his being asleep, i returned, took the light, and with it again approached the bed .
this monomania, if i must so term it, consisted in a morbid irritability of those properties of the mind in metaphysical science termed the attentive .
i saw them fashion the syllables of my name; and i shuddered because no sound succeeded .
the inference here is the same as in our last observation .
had the vision occurred to me as i describe it, without my suspecting it as a dream, then a dream it might absolutely have been, but, occurring as it did, and suspected and tested as it was, i am forced to class it among other phenomena . ''
i grant you that in fum fudge the greatness of a lion is in proportion to the size of his proboscis but, good heavens there is no competing with a lion who has no proboscis at all . ''
what was worthy of remark, a very perceptible vacillation in the car was a consequence of this change of route a vacillation which prevailed, in a more or less degree, for a period of many hours .
indeed, his competition, his resistance, and especially his impertinent and dogged interference with my purposes, were not more pointed than private .
it displayed itself in a host of unnatural sensations .
the expanse of the green turf was relieved, here and there, by an occasional showy shrub, such as the hydrangea, or the common snowball, or the aromatic seringa; or, more frequently, by a clump of geraniums blossoming gorgeously in great varieties .
man, because he could not but acknowledge the majesty of nature, fell into childish exultation at his acquired and still increasing dominion over her elements .
in the morning, the wretch is stricken with unutterable horror at finding that the boat has been picked up and detained at a locality which he is in the daily habit of frequenting at a locality, perhaps, which his duty compels him to frequent .
would it not have been better, at the first visit, to have seized it openly, and departed? ''
with a too unscrupulous confidence she had previously communicated to me the secret of the costume in which she would be habited, and now, having caught a glimpse of her person, i was hurrying to make my way into her presence .
this canteen with a funnel on its top, like a cavalier cap slouched over the eyes was set on edge upon the puncheon, with the hole toward myself; and through this hole, which seemed puckered up like the mouth of a very precise old maid, the creature was emitting certain rumbling and grumbling noises which he evidently intended for intelligible talk .
in fine, driven to despair, she has committed the matter to me  . ''  ''than whom, '' said dupin, amid a perfect whirlwind of smoke,  ''no more sagacious agent could, i suppose, be desired, or even imagined. ''
to the right to the left far and wide with the shriek of a damned spirit; to my heart with the stealthy pace of the tiger i alternately laughed and howled as the one or the other idea grew predominant .
that the result would be death, and a death of more than customary bitterness, i knew too well the character of my judges to doubt .
these contrivances to make the room within the box appear less than it actually is, are referrible to a design on the part of the inventor, to impress the company again with a false idea, viz .
never conversed with a native of russia .
not so, however, rumors and speculations .
he still professed himself quite willing and even anxious to have it made, and urged me to commence it at once .
but although men so absolutely fine looking are neither as plenty as reasons or blackberries, still i could not bring myself to believe that the remarkable something to which i alluded just now, that the odd air of je ne sais quoi which hung about my new acquaintance, lay altogether, or indeed at all, in the supreme excellence of his bodily endowments .
it contained about three hundred and twenty cubic feet of gas, which, if pure hydrogen, would support twenty one pounds upon its first inflation, before the gas has time to deteriorate or escape .
 ''i am quite ashamed to confess, '' i replied,  ''that i have never even heard the names of either gentleman before . ''
you have observed nothing distinctive .
but of that dreary period which intervened i had no positive, at least no definite comprehension .
her illnesses were, after this epoch, of alarming character, and of more alarming recurrence, defying alike the knowledge and the great exertions of her physicians .
without pausing to speak of the  ''old saws, '' therefore, i shall content myself with a compendious account of some of the more  ''modern instances . ''
they were wild, bold, ravenous; their red eyes glaring upon me as if they waited but for motionlessness on my part to make me their prey .
about the mouth there was more to be observed .
   ''here we are enabled, at once, to discard the 'th,' as forming no portion of the word commencing with the first t; since, by experiment of the entire alphabet for a letter adapted to the vacancy, we perceive that no word can be formed of which this th can be a part .
the career of the horseman was indisputably, on his own part, uncontrollable .
he was enchained by certain superstitious impressions in regard to the dwelling which he tenanted, and whence, for many years, he had never ventured forth in regard to an influence whose supposititious force was conveyed in terms too shadowy here to be re stated an influence which some peculiarities in the mere form and substance of his family mansion, had, by dint of long sufferance, he said, obtained over his spirit an effect which the physique of the gray walls and turrets, and of the dim tarn into which they all looked down, had, at length, brought about upon the morale of his existence .
there was a sharp turn at every twenty or thirty yards, and at each turn a novel effect .
dead, and at full length he lay, enshrouded; the genius and the demon of the scene .
i grant, at least, that there are two distinct conditions of my mental existence the condition of a lucid reason, not to be disputed, and belonging to the memory of events forming the first epoch of my life and a condition of shadow and doubt, appertaining to the present, and to the recollection of what constitutes the second great era of my being .
there will be a point there will be a degree of rarity, at which, if the atoms are sufficiently numerous, the interspaces must vanish, and the mass absolutely coalesce .
oh god pity me, charmion i am overburthened with the majesty of all things of the unknown now known of the speculative future merged in the august and certain present .
but, as the point immediately beneath him seems, and is, at a great distance below him, it seems, of course, also, at a great distance below the horizon .
upon my entering he strode hurriedly up to me, and, seizing me by the arm with a gesture of petulant impatience, whispered the words  ''william wilson '' in my ear .
 ''many other persons, neighbors, gave evidence to the same effect .
to the moralist it will be unnecessary to say, in addition, that wilson and myself were the most inseparable of companions .
it wanted about five minutes of eight when, taking the patient 's hand, i begged him to state, as distinctly as he could, to mr   . l l, whether he m. valdemar was entirely willing that i should make the experiment of mesmerizing him in his then condition.
these colors disappear at longer or shorter intervals after the material written upon cools, but again become apparent upon the re application of heat .
the following anecdote, at least, is so well authenticated, that we may receive it implicitly .
a little consideration will convince any one that the difficulty of making a machine beat all games, is not in the least degree greater, as regards the principle of the operations necessary, than that of making it beat a single game .
the door, of massive iron, had been, also, similarly protected .
in general, the turk is victorious once or twice he has been beaten .
st  . eustache fell especially under suspicion; and he failed, at first, to give an intelligible account of his whereabouts during the sunday on which marie left home.
monsieur dumas, and his worthy coadjutor monsieur etienne, have pronounced that they were inflicted by some obtuse instrument; and so far these gentlemen are very correct .
the chair on which the figure sits is affixed permanently to the box .
nobody hesitates at paying for a letter especially for a double one people are such fools and it was no trouble to get round a corner before there was time to open the epistles .
impossible a mason? ''  ''a mason, '' i replied .
the supposed brass with which it was filled was all in small, smooth pieces, varying from the size of a pea to that of a dollar; but the pieces were irregular in shape, although more or less flat looking, upon the whole,   'very much as lead looks when thrown upon the ground in a molten state, and there suffered to grow cool  .' now, not one of these officers for a moment suspected this metal to be any thing but brass.
the atrocity of this murder, for it was at once evident that murder had been committed, the youth and beauty of the victim, and, above all, her previous notoriety, conspired to produce intense excitement in the minds of the sensitive parisians .
he again went through the scene of the bell rope and cudgel, and did not omit the duck .
it was, he said, a constitutional and a family evil, and one for which he despaired to find a remedy a mere nervous affection, he immediately added, which would undoubtedly soon pass off .
the examination occupied us until dark, when we took our departure .
here my host 's observations were cut short by another series of yells, of the same character as those which had previously disconcerted us .
the expression of his smile, however, was by no means unpleasing, as might be supposed; but it had no variation whatever .
wherever seen it has been an object of intense curiosity, to all persons who think .
i have therefore framed for myself, as you see, a bower of dreams .
if drowned, being a woman, she might never have sunk; or having sunk, might have reappeared in twenty four hours, or less .
and such it would undoubtedly be, were they right in their supposition .
these the keg and canisters i connected in a proper manner with covered trains; and having let into one of the canisters the end of about four feet of slow match, i covered up the hole, and placed the cask over it, leaving the other end of the match protruding about an inch, and barely visible beyond the cask .
this spirit of perverseness, i say, came to my final overthrow .
    'i lie,' forsooth and 'hold my tongue,' to be sure pretty conversation indeed, to a gentleman with a single breath all this, too, when i have it in my power to relieve the calamity under which thou dost so justly suffer to curtail the superfluities of thine unhappy respiration . ''
through this tube a quantity of the rare atmosphere circumjacent being drawn by means of a vacuum created in the body of the machine, was thence discharged, in a state of condensation, to mingle with the thin air already in the chamber .
he continued:  ''we had been talking of horses, if i remember aright, just before leaving the rue c  .
  ''besides the articles above enumerated, i conveyed to the depot, and there secreted, one of m  . grimm's improvements upon the apparatus for condensation of the atmospheric air.
  ''smith? '' said my partner,  ''why, not general john a   . b. c.? horrid affair that, wasn't it?
puss, who seemed in a great measure recovered from her illness, now made a hearty meal of the dead bird and then went to sleep with much apparent satisfaction .
the author who was much thought of in his day was one miller, or mill; and we find it recorded of him, as a point of some importance, that he had a mill horse called bentham .
somehow thus: can 't be too brief .
in truth so deeply was i excited by the perilous position of my companion, that i fell at full length upon the ground, clung to the shrubs around me, and dared not even glance upward at the sky while i struggled in vain to divest myself of the idea that the very foundations of the mountain were in danger from the fury of the winds .
then it was not done by human agency .
again he converses, for some fifteen minutes, upon the public affairs .
  'there were originally but three muses melete, mneme, aoede meditation, memory, and singing .'
the room within which they found themselves proved to be the shop of an undertaker; but an open trap door, in a corner of the floor near the entrance, looked down upon a long range of wine cellars, whose depths the occasional sound of bursting bottles proclaimed to be well stored with their appropriate contents .
what added, no doubt, to my hatred of the beast, was the discovery, on the morning after i brought it home, that, like pluto, it also had been deprived of one of its eyes .
coincidences, in general, are great stumbling blocks in the way of that class of thinkers who have been educated to know nothing of the theory of probabilities that theory to which the most glorious objects of human research are indebted for the most glorious of illustration .
the foregoing observations apply to the appearance of the automaton upon its first introduction into the presence of the spectators .
a traveller, portmanteau in hand, is discovered running toward the wharf, at full speed .
the real diameter of the same comet 's nebulosity is observed to contract rapidly as it approaches the sun, and dilate with equal rapidity in its departure towards its aphelion .
it was the hour of the slack but the sea still heaved in mountainous waves from the effects of the hurricane .
dogless, niggerless, headless, what now remains for the unhappy signora psyche zenobia?
but, on the next day, getting up very early, i contrived to give him the slip, and went into the hills in search of the tree .
sweeps were sent up and down the chimneys .
i was soon upon the point of resigning myself to my fate, and dropping quietly into the sea, when my spirits were suddenly revived by hearing a hollow voice from above, which seemed to be lazily humming an opera air .
as to the shape of the phenomenon, it was even still more reprehensible .
black draperies, likewise, in the gloomy room, shut out from our view the moon, the lurid stars, and the peopleless streets but the boding and the memory of evil they would not be so excluded .
but i wish to call your attention to the distinction which is made between     'drowned bodies,' and 'bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence .'
  ''mademoiselle rogêt left her mother's house on sunday morning, june the twenty second, , with the ostensible purpose of going to see her aunt, or some other connexion, in the rue des drômes .
sails were lying in the bottom of the boat .
nor is he matter, as you understand it .
he was an especial favorite, too, with the ladies chiefly on account of his high reputation for courage .
i must besides do the driver the justice to state that he did not forget to throw after me the largest of my trunks, which, unfortunately falling on my head, fractured my skull in a manner at once interesting and extraordinary .
it ran thus:  ''monsieur simpson vill pardonne me for not compose de butefulle tong of his contree so vell as might .
i have much very much which it would give me the greatest pleasure to communicate .
was not acquainted with the italian language .
i accordingly went over to the plantation, and re instituted my inquiries among the older negroes of the place .
i now unpacked the condensing apparatus, and got it ready for immediate use .
the man, of course, was not permitted to get on board again, and was soon out of sight, he and his life preserver .
 ''here then, at least, '' i shrieked aloud,  ''can i never can i never be mistaken these are the full, and the black, and the wild eyes of my lost love of the lady of the lady ligeia . ''
nothing so well assists the fancy, as an experimental knowledge of the matter in hand .
forms affected my vision no longer .
at death, or metamorphosis, these creatures, enjoying the ultimate life immortality and cognizant of all secrets but the one, act all things and pass everywhere by mere volition: indwelling, not the stars, which to us seem the sole palpabilities, and for the accommodation of which we blindly deem space created but that space itself that infinity of which the truly substantive vastness swallows up the star shadows blotting them out as non entities from the perception of the angels .
in this manner the horizon of the æronaut would appear to be on a level with the car .
upon these three i internally vowed the bitterest revenge, if ever i should be so happy as to get them within my clutches; and i believe nothing in the world but the pleasure of this anticipation prevented me from putting my plan of suicide into immediate execution, by blowing my brains out with a blunderbuss .
 ''why, yes, '' said dupin, drawlingly, between the whiffs of his meerschaum,  ''i really think, g , you have not exerted yourself to the utmost in this matter .
they were a consequence a result .
we know of them, among other things, that they are always to their possessor, when inordinately possessed, a source of the liveliest enjoyment .
dupin said the last words in a very low tone, and very quietly .
it follows that the game of chess, in its effects upon mental character, is greatly misunderstood .
wyatt 's three rooms were in the after cabin, which was separated from the main one by a slight sliding door, never locked even at night .
at the expiration of this period, however, i was thrown into an extremity of agitation by seeing her unfold, for the second time, the eye glass which hung at her side, fully confront me as before, and, disregarding the renewed buzz of the audience, survey me, from head to foot, with the same miraculous composure which had previously so delighted and confounded my soul .
the clocks carved upon the furniture took to dancing as if bewitched, while those upon the mantel pieces could scarcely contain themselves for fury, and kept such a continual striking of thirteen, and such a frisking and wriggling of their pendulums as was really horrible to see .
a luminous body imparts vibration to the luminiferous ether .
and in this second endeavor i succeeded .
many steps above the marchesa, and within the arch of the water gate, stood, in full dress, the satyr like figure of mentoni himself .
i now ventured to inquire the cause of the disturbance .
and why did you insist upon letting fall the bug, instead of a bullet, from the skull? ''  ''why, to be frank, i felt somewhat annoyed by your evident suspicions touching my sanity, and so resolved to punish you quietly, in my own way, by a little bit of sober mystification .
 ''you can either conduct yourself as a lady should do, or you can quit the table forthwith take your choice . ''
hereditary wealth afforded me an education of no common order, and a contemplative turn of mind enabled me to methodize the stores which early study very diligently garnered up .
at any rate we always add to our names the initials p                . r. e. t. t. y. b. l. u. e. b. a. t. c. h. that is to say, philadelphia, regular, exchange, tea, total, young, belles, lettres, universal, experimental, bibliographical, association, to, civilize, humanity one letter for each word, which is a decided improvement upon lord brougham.
it will take an entire hen coop of picked chickens to get over that .
endeavored to make out her name, but could not be sure of it .
      ''him de syfe and de spade what massa will sis pon my buying for him in de town, and de debbils own lot of money i had to gib for em  . ''  ''but what, in the name of all that is mysterious, is your 'massa will' going to do with scythes and spades? ''  ''dat's more dan i know, and debbil take me if i don't blieve 'tis more dan he know, too.
they were sounds occasioned by the artist in prying open the oblong box, by means of a chisel and mallet the latter being apparently muffled, or deadened, by some soft woollen or cotton substance in which its head was enveloped .
in their origin these laws were fashioned to embrace all contingencies which could lie in the future .
thus it was that we lived all alone, knowing nothing of the world without the valley i, and my cousin, and her mother .
  ''the author's observations on the artificial style, '' continued ellison,  ''are less objectionable .
this may be the practice in law, but it is not the usage of reason .
i heard all things in the heaven and in the earth .
these men, i say, theorize; and their theories are simply corrected, reduced, systematized cleared, little by little, of their dross of inconsistency until, finally, a perfect consistency stands apparent which even the most stolid admit, because it is a consistency, to be an absolute and an unquestionable truth .
let me then remember .
but my attention was not confined to theories alone .
as we crossed into this street, a fruiterer, with a large basket upon his head, brushing quickly past us, thrust you upon a pile of paving stones collected at a spot where the causeway is undergoing repair .
to be brief upon a vile topic, none of the low finesse was omitted, so customary upon similar occasions that it is a just matter for wonder how any are still found so besotted as to fall its victim .
there was delphinus polyglott .
i say insufferable; for the feeling was unrelieved by any of that half pleasurable, because poetic, sentiment, with which the mind usually receives even the sternest natural images of the desolate or terrible .
mathematical axioms are not axioms of general truth .
in truth, while that merit which consists in the mere avoiding demerit, appeals directly to the understanding, and can thus be foreshadowed in rule, the loftier merit, which breathes and flames in invention or creation, can be apprehended solely in its results .
 ''we had; but the reward offered is prodigious ''  ''you include the grounds about the houses? ''
if thrown from the shore a weight would have been attached .
this, then, is the object of the present paper .
might not this be the case with mr . windenough?
having, as i thought, sufficiently collected my ideas, i now, with great caution and deliberation, put my hands behind my back, and unfastened the large iron buckle which belonged to the waistband of my inexpressibles .
he is a mathematician, and no poet . ''
his grace thought of his game .
while on the subject of names, by the bye, i may mention a singular coincidence of sound attending the names of some of my immediate predecessors .
accustomed as i am to this mode of travelling, i cannot get over a kind of giddiness whenever a balloon passes us in a current directly overhead .
a slight noise attracted my notice, and, looking to the floor, i saw several enormous rats traversing it .
opening into the garret where they caught him, was a closet, ten feet by eight, fitted up with some chemical apparatus, of which the object has not yet been ascertained .
it lay beneath me like a chart and although i judged it to be still at no inconsiderable distance, the indentures of its surface were defined to my vision with a most striking and altogether unaccountable distinctness .
i asked, rubbing my hands over the blaze, and wishing the whole tribe of scarabæi at the devil .
with the first glimpse we obtain of it, the dawn of our success shall begin .
i stepped on it, and fell violently on my face .
alas the grim legion of sepulchral terrors cannot be regarded as altogether fanciful but, like the demons in whose company afrasiab made his voyage down the oxus, they must sleep, or they will devour us they must be suffered to slumber, or we perish .
the poop and beak of this boat arise high above the water, with sharp points, so that the general form is that of an irregular crescent .
no more remarkable man ever lived than my friend, the young ellison .
after doing this, i really do not perceive that you can do any more .
from the swarming streets to the banks of the river, there descended innumerable flights of steps leading to bathing places, while the river itself seemed to force a passage with difficulty through the vast fleets of deeply burthened ships that far and wide encountered its surface .
the field of sculpture, although in its nature rigidly poetical, was too limited in its extent and in its consequences, to have occupied, at any time, much of his attention .
when it had become definitely known that such was the enormous wealth inherited, there were, of course, many speculations as to the mode of its disposal .
do you understand mr . rumgudgeon?
in the privacy of his bureau he reclined languidly on that ottoman for which he sacrificed his loyalty in outbidding his king the notorious ottoman of cadet .
while i stood thus in despair, conversing with a trio of friends upon the all absorbing subject of my heart, it so happened that the subject itself passed by .
here were the most entirely even, and the most brilliantly white of all conceivable teeth .
the circumstance of the first elopement, as mentioned by le mercurie, tends to blend the idea of this seaman with that of the   'naval officer' who is first known to have led the unfortunate into crime .
i have a distinct recollection of frequently compressing my lips, putting my forefinger to the side of my nose, and making use of other gesticulations and grimaces common to men who, at ease in their arm chairs, meditate upon matters of intricacy or importance .
 ''yes; i promise; and now let us be off, for we have no time to lose . ''
and now, at last, as if by the rush of an ocean, my shuddering spirit is overwhelmed by the one grim danger by the one spectral and ever prevalent idea .
we should bear in mind that, in general, it is the object of our newspapers rather to create a sensation to make a point than to further the cause of truth .
indeed, during the brief period of her existence, the latter had received no impressions from the outward world, save such as might have been afforded by the narrow limits of her privacy .
ellison became neither musician nor poet; although no man lived more profoundly enamored of music and poetry .
an unaccountable, and what i am compelled to consider a magnetic, sympathy of soul for soul, seemed to rivet, not only my vision, but my whole powers of thought and feeling, upon the admirable object before me .
there were other points to be ascertained, but these most excited my curiosity the last in especial, from the immensely important character of its consequences .
they sigh one unto the other in that solitude, and stretch towards the heaven their long and ghastly necks, and nod to and fro their everlasting heads .
 ''a thousand pounds, '' said i       .  ''a thousand pounds? '' said he.  ''precisely, '' said i.  ''a thousand pounds? '' said he.  ''just so, '' said i.  ''you shall have them, '' said he.  ''what a piece of virtu '' so he drew me a check upon the spot, and took a sketch of my nose.
  ''oh, no, fie robert's not quite so bad as that .
to judge from the external appearance of the box, it is divided into five compartments three cupboards of equal dimensions, and two drawers occupying that portion of the chest lying beneath the cupboards .
while i thus feasted my eyes, i perceived, at last, to my great trepidation, by an almost imperceptible start on the part of the lady, that she had become suddenly aware of the intensity of my gaze .
  ''the three of us my two brothers and myself had crossed over to the islands about two o'clock p   . m., and had soon nearly loaded the smack with fine fish, which, we all remarked, were more plenty that day than we had ever known them.
the mantelpieces are wide and high, and have not only time pieces and cabbages sculptured over the front, but a real time piece, which makes a prodigious ticking, on the top in the middle, with a flower pot containing a cabbage standing on each extremity by way of outrider .
for there was yet another tenant of our chamber in the person of young zoilus .
the principle of the vis inertiæ, for example, seems to be identical in physics and metaphysics .
the slight elevation which formed the lower boundary of this little domain, was crowned by a neat stone wall, of sufficient height to prevent the escape of the deer .
from that chamber, and from that mansion, i fled aghast .
the patient 's extremities were of an icy coldness .
in short, the good burghers were fond of their sauer kraut, but then they were proud of their clocks .
write      'il pover 'huomo che non se'n era accorto, andava combattendo, e era morto  .'  ''that's italian, you perceive from ariosto.
   ''it is, '' said dupin;  ''and, upon inquiring of the boy by what means he effected the thorough identification in which his success consisted, i received answer as follows: 'when i wish to find out how wise, or how stupid, or how good, or how wicked is any one, or what are his thoughts at the moment, i fashion the expression of my face, as accurately as possible, in accordance with the expression of his, and then wait to see what thoughts or sentiments arise in my mind or heart, as if to match or correspond with the expression .'
 ''superb '' said his guests: and next morning her grace of bless my soul paid me a visit .
we put the boat on the wind, but could make no headway at all for the eddies, and i was upon the point of proposing to return to the anchorage, when, looking astern, we saw the whole horizon covered with a singular copper colored cloud that rose with the most amazing velocity .
yet i remember ah how should i forget? the deep midnight, the bridge of sighs, the beauty of woman, and the genius of romance that stalked up and down the narrow canal .
as to the where, it was yorktown wherever that was, and as to the what, it was general cornwallis no doubt some wealthy dealer in corn .
in short, no position can be attained on the wide surface of the natural earth, from which an artistical eye, looking steadily, will not find matter of offence in what is termed the  ''composition '' of the landscape .
i shall discharge this decanter of wine at your image in yonder mirror, and thus fulfil all the spirit, if not the exact letter, of resentment for your insult, while the necessity of physical violence to your real person will be obviated . ''
yet these noble exceptions from the general misrule served but to strengthen it by opposition .
but may god shield and deliver me from the fangs of the arch fiend no sooner had the reverberation of my blows sunk into silence, than i was answered by a voice from within the tomb by a cry, at first muffled and broken, like the sobbing of a child, and then quickly swelling into one long, loud, and continuous scream, utterly anomalous and inhuman a howl a wailing shriek, half of horror and half of triumph, such as might have arisen only out of hell, conjointly from the throats of the dammed in their agony and of the demons that exult in the damnation .
audacity: your diddler is audacious .
the vibrations generate similar ones within the retina; these again communicate similar ones to the optic nerve .
leaving doors no    . and no. open as well as the drawer, and door no. i, the exhibiter now goes round to the back of the main compartment, and, unlocking another door there, displays clearly all the interior of the main compartment, by introducing a candle behind it and within it.
the editor here proceeds to argue that the body must have been in the water  ''not three days merely, but, at least, five times three days, '' because it was so far decomposed that beauvais had great difficulty in recognizing it .
it was not, and could not have been, arrived at by any inductive reasoning .
this i could scarcely have believed had it been anybody but mr  . blackwood, who assured me of it.
it was almost impossible to believe that they were not absolutely suspended in the air .
on the roof is a vast quantity of tiles with long curly ears .
   'come quickly, o death but be sure and don't let me see you coming, lest the pleasure i shall feel at your appearance should unfortunately bring me back again to life .'
i was now trying to get the better of the stupor that had come over me, and to collect my senses so as to see what was to be done, when i felt somebody grasp my arm .
your objection is answered with an ease which is nearly in the ratio of its apparent unanswerability .
i bought, for a song, a sixteenth of the  ''snapping turtle '': that was all .
and for this reason when a man  's diddled we say he's  ''done . ''
she came and departed as a shadow .
in stature he is nearly my own height; that is, about five feet eight inches .
observe, here, the laughable confusion of thought no one not even l 'etoile disputes the murder committed on the body found .
i now considered that, provided in my passage i found the medium i had imagined, and provided that it should prove to be actually and essentially what we denominate atmospheric air, it could make comparatively little difference at what extreme state of rarefaction i should discover it that is to say, in regard to my power of ascending for the gas in the balloon would not only be itself subject to rarefaction partially similar in proportion to the occurrence of which, i could suffer an escape of so much as would be requisite to prevent explosion, but, being what it was, would, at all events, continue specifically lighter than any compound whatever of mere nitrogen and oxygen .
the main fury of the blast had already blown over, and we apprehended little danger from the violence of the wind; but we looked forward to its total cessation with dismay; well believing, that, in our shattered condition, we should inevitably perish in the tremendous swell which would ensue .
i shuddered as i assigned to them in imagination a sensitive and sentient power, and even when unassisted by the lips, a capability of moral expression .
the forms of those bodies are accurately such as, within a given surface, to include the greatest possible amount of matter; while the surfaces themselves are so disposed as to accommodate a denser population than could be accommodated on the same surfaces otherwise arranged .
similarly entitled, the perpetration of a miserable penny a liner, mendicant, and cut throat, connected in the capacity of scullion, we believe, with one of the indecent prints about the purlieus of the city; we beg them, for god 's sake, not to confound the compositions .
to accomplish the great desideratum of ærial navigation, it was very generally supposed that some exceedingly complicated application must be made of some unusually profound principle in dynamics .
my honor is interested, and, to mention a great secret, the reward is enormous .
 ''come in, '' said dupin, in a cheerful and hearty tone .
i knew what the old man felt, and pitied him, although i chuckled at heart .
in his teeth the villain held the bell rope, which he kept jerking about with his head, raising such a clatter that my ears ring again even to think of it .
a tub had caught all ha ha when i had made an end of these labors, it was four o 'clock still dark as midnight .
we ascertain, too, very distinctly, from this admirable inscription, the how as well as the where and the what, of the great surrender in question .
 ''but then, '' cried the old lady, at the top of her voice,  ''your monsieur boullard was a madman, and a very silly madman at best; for who, allow me to ask you, ever heard of a human tee totum?
it will be found, in fact, that the ingenious are always fanciful, and the truly imaginative never otherwise than analytic .
 ''having adopted this view of the subject, i had little further hesitation .
there were, then, no secret issues .
a small island, fairly laughing with flowers in full bloom, and affording little more space than just enough for a picturesque little building, seemingly a fowl house arose from the lake not far from its northern shore to which it was connected by means of an inconceivably light looking and yet very primitive bridge .
proceeding, in the same direction, yet another thousand miles, i anticipate the rising by two hours another thousand, and i anticipate it by three hours, and so on, until i go entirely round the globe, and back to this spot, when, having gone twenty four thousand miles east, i anticipate the rising of the london sun by no less than twenty four hours; that is to say, i am a day in advance of your time .
on drawing nearer to this, however, its chasm like appearance vanishes; a new outlet from the bay is discovered to the left in which direction the wall is also seen to sweep, still following the general course of the stream .
the night waned; and still, with a bosom full of bitter thoughts of the one only and supremely beloved, i remained gazing upon the body of rowena .
  ''ugh ugh ugh '' chuckled tarpaulin without heeding the general excitation,  ''ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh i was saying, '' said he,  ''i was saying when mr  . king pest poked in his marlin spike, that as for the matter of two or three gallons more or less of black strap, it was a trifle to a tight sea boat like myself not overstowed but when it comes to drinking the health of the devil whom god assoilzie and going down upon my marrow bones to his ill favored majesty there, whom i know, as well as i know myself to be a sinner, to be nobody in the whole world, but tim hurlygurly the stage player why it's quite another guess sort of a thing, and utterly and altogether past my comprehension. ''
besides this ship, i saw nothing but the ocean and the sky, and the sun, which had long arisen .
upon this latter shelf, and exactly beneath one of the rims of the keg, a small earthern pitcher was deposited .
the individual who purloined it is known; this beyond a doubt; he was seen to take it .
here it is:       '''a good glass in the bishop's hostel in the devil's seat forty one degrees and thirteen minutes northeast and by north main branch seventh limb east side shoot from the left eye of the death's head a bee line from the tree through the shot fifty feet out .' ''
 ''the fruiterer you astonish me i know no fruiterer whomsoever . ''
books, indeed, were his sole luxuries, and in paris these are easily obtained .
we caught him flying, all smoking and foaming with rage, from the burning stables of the castle berlifitzing .
   ''let us reflect now upon 'the traces of a struggle;' and let me ask what these traces have been supposed to demonstrate .
no sofa has been sold no money received except by the diddler, who played shop keeper for the nonce .
it lies on the surface of the bay with the proud grace of a swan .
a shriek had been heard by a neighbour during the night; suspicion of foul play had been aroused; information had been lodged at the police office, and they the officers had been deputed to search the premises .
this mistake made a difference of about two inches and a half in the       'shot' that is to say, in the position of the peg nearest the tree; and had the treasure been beneath the 'shot,' the error would have been of little moment; but 'the shot,' together with the nearest point of the tree, were merely two points for the establishment of a line of direction; of course the error, however trivial in the beginning, increased as we proceeded with the line, and by the time we had gone fifty feet, threw us quite off the scent .
in an instant afterward he rapped, with a gentle touch, at my door, and entered, bearing a lamp .
his name is a derivation of the greek simia what great fools are antiquarians but see see yonder scampers a ragged little urchin .
this, however, did not vex me; it would not be heard through the wall .
the first was, that, as a general rule, the larger the bodies were, the more rapid their descent the second, that, between two masses of equal extent, the one spherical, and the other of any other shape, the superiority in speed of descent was with the sphere the third, that, between two masses of equal size, the one cylindrical, and the other of any other shape, the cylinder was absorbed the more slowly .
in the final of the somnambula, she brought about a most remarkable effect at the words: ah non guinge uman pensiero al contento ond  'io son piena .
the alteration, however, in the entire expression of the general 's countenance was instantaneous and surprising .
it had been originally written london, and afterwards carefully overscored not, however, so effectually as to conceal the word from a scrutinizing eye .
i will seek out their writings forthwith, and peruse them with deliberate care .
we subject the unlooked for and unimagined, to the mathematical formulae of the schools .
this action, so remarkable in an american theatre, attracted very general observation, and gave rise to an indefinite movement, or buzz, among the audience, which for a moment filled me with confusion, but produced no visible effect upon the countenance of madame lalande .
the door of the cathedral stood invitingly open .
from that memorable night, i dismissed forever my charnel apprehensions, and with them vanished the cataleptic disorder, of which, perhaps, they had been less the consequence than the cause .
i was shown up a broad winding staircase of mosaics, into an apartment whose unparalleled splendor burst through the opening door with an actual glare, making me blind and dizzy with luxuriousness .
ligeia ligeia in studies of a nature more than all else adapted to deaden impressions of the outward world, it is by that sweet word alone by ligeia that i bring before mine eyes in fancy the image of her who is no more .
he admitted no visitors at all with the exception, one day, of a very stupid looking young gentleman of whom he had no reason to be afraid .
but the alteration stopped not here i neither hoped nor desired it to stop .
this prolongation of the cusps beyond the semicircle, i thought, must have arisen from the refraction of the sun  's rays by the moon's atmosphere .
the customs of the world are so many conventional follies .
there was another circumstance, too, which interested me much .
one single gale such as now befriends us let such a tempest whirl forward a balloon for four or five days these gales often last longer and the voyager will be easily borne, in that period, from coast to coast .
the result was discoverable, he added, in that silent, yet importunate and terrible influence which for centuries had moulded the destinies of his family, and which made him what i now saw him what he was .
it was evident that if the balloon held its present course, it would soon arrive above the frozen ocean, and i had now little doubt of ultimately seeing the pole .
 ''i fear you are right there, '' said the prefect .
it is all very well to talk about the facilis descensus averni; but in all kinds of climbing, as catalani said of singing, it is far more easy to get up than to come down .
i concluded the most wildly enthusiastic epistle ever penned, with a frank declaration of my worldly circumstances of my affluence and with an offer of my heart and of my hand .
we shall start immediately, and be back, at all events, by sunrise . ''
i was aware, however, that his very ancient family had been noted, time out of mind, for a peculiar sensibility of temperament, displaying itself, through long ages, in many works of exalted art, and manifested, of late, in repeated deeds of munificent yet unobtrusive charity, as well as in a passionate devotion to the intricacies, perhaps even more than to the orthodox and easily recognisable beauties, of musical science .
its marvellous effect lay altogether in its artistic arrangement as a picture .
i knew what he meant by that one word well enough i knew what he wished to make me understand .
beyond the limits of the city arose, in frequent majestic groups, the palm and the cocoa, with other gigantic and weird trees of vast age, and here and there might be seen a field of rice, the thatched hut of a peasant, a tank, a stray temple, a gypsy camp, or a solitary graceful maiden taking her way, with a pitcher upon her head, to the banks of the magnificent river .
in the mad intensity of my devotion, i forgot everything but the presence and the majestic loveliness of the vision which confronted my gaze .
rushing then with all his force against the fatal hogshead full of october ale and hugh tarpaulin, he rolled it over and over in an instant .
if a false move be made by his antagonist, he raps briskly on the box with the fingers of his right hand, shakes his head roughly, and replacing the piece falsely moved, in its former situation, assumes the next move himself .
i looked at it for some minutes: it was a spade .
the mask which concealed the visage was made so nearly to resemble the countenance of a stiffened corpse that the closest scrutiny must have had difficulty in detecting the cheat .
with the wind that now drove us on, we were bound for the whirl of the ström, and nothing could save us      ''you perceive that in crossing the ström channel, we always went a long way up above the whirl, even in the calmest weather, and then had to wait and watch carefully for the slack but now we were driving right upon the pool itself, and in such a hurricane as this 'to be sure,' i thought, 'we shall get there just about the slack there is some little hope in that' but in the next moment i cursed myself for being so great a fool as to dream of hope at all .
must i say precisely? ''
when the automaton hesitates in relation to its move, the exhibiter is occasionally seen to place himself very near its right side, and to lay his hand, now and then, in a careless manner upon the box .
observing that i remained without motion, one or two of the boldest leaped upon the frame work, and smelt at the surcingle .
i have never yet been able to account, in a manner satisfactory to my own understanding, for the very peculiar countenance and demeanor with which mr  . crab listened to me, as i unfolded to him my design.
i reflected that many difficulties might still lie in the path of my preservation which only extreme exertion on my part would be able to surmount .
from each room to every other there were sure to be found three or four steps either in ascent or descent .
upon his person was found a letter, briefly stating his love for marie, with his design of self destruction .
but it is by no means a really natural arrangement .
her presence, her readings alone, rendered vividly luminous the many mysteries of the transcendentalism in which we were immersed .
a little reflection upon this discovery sufficed to render evident the consequences, which were that rascality must predominate in a word, that a republican government could never be any thing but a rascally one .
this man is about the medium size, and has a remarkable stoop in the shoulders .
my nose is sufficiently good .
now even granting what should not be granted that the movements of the automaton chess player were in themselves determinate, they would be necessarily interrupted and disarranged by the indeterminate will of his antagonist .
i had the good fortune to recollect that in the accentuation of this drama, or at least of such portion of it as is allotted to the hero, the tones of voice in which i found myself deficient were altogether unnecessary, and the deep guttural was expected to reign monotonously throughout .
i could no longer bear the touch of her wan fingers, nor the low tone of her musical language, nor the lustre of her melancholy eyes .
i felt that i breathed an atmosphere of sorrow .
the putting the key in the lock of the back door was a signal on hearing which the person concealed brought his body forward to an angle as acute as possible throwing it altogether, or nearly so, into the main compartment .
not being able to arrive at a conclusion, the practitioners remanded me for farther examination .
certain data being given, certain results necessarily and inevitably follow .
in the meantime, the force of gravitation would be constantly diminishing, in proportion to the squares of the distances, and thus, with a velocity prodigiously accelerating, i should at length arrive in those distant regions where the force of the earth 's attraction would be superseded by that of the moon .
a servant is sent to make inquiry about the delay .
they would have it that coleridge wrote the paper but not so .
accordingly we find that maelzel closes the back door .
i bent to them my ear and distinguished, again, the concluding words of the passage in glanvill  ''man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will . ''
when passing over an expanse of water, it becomes necessary to employ small kegs of copper or wood, filled with liquid ballast of a lighter nature than water .
is a native of spain .
found the ascending force greater than we had expected; and as we arose higher and so got clear of the cliffs, and more in the sun 's rays, our ascent became very rapid .
the chief in point of splendor and extent was the  ''château metzengerstein . ''
a poet, having very unusual pecuniary resources, might, while retaining the necessary idea of art or culture, or, as our author expresses it, of interest, so imbue his designs at once with extent and novelty of beauty, as to convey the sentiment of spiritual interference .
at length the negro asked,  ''is de lef eye of de skull pon de same side as de lef hand of de skull, too? cause de skull aint got not a bit ob a hand at all nebber mind i got de lef eye now here de lef eye what mus do wid it? ''
he who has never swooned, is not he who finds strange palaces and wildly familiar faces in coals that glow; is not he who beholds floating in mid air the sad visions that the many may not view; is not he who ponders over the perfume of some novel flower is not he whose brain grows bewildered with the meaning of some musical cadence which has never before arrested his attention .
arm holes had been cut in the sides, for the sake not more of elegance than of convenience; but the dress, nevertheless, prevented its proprietor from sitting as erect as his associates; and as he lay reclining against his tressel, at an angle of forty five degrees, a pair of huge goggle eyes rolled up their awful whites towards the ceiling in absolute amazement at their own enormity .
the genius of the stanzas to the  ''oil of bob '' first breathed into me, i say, the divine afflatus .
the cycles in which the stars move are those best adapted for the evolution, without collision, of the greatest possible number of bodies .
 ''i wish you to bear especially in mind that i have spoken of a very unusual degree of activity as requisite to success in so hazardous and so difficult a feat .
the shingles were painted a dull gray; and the happiness with which this neutral tint melted into the vivid green of the tulip tree leaves that partially overshadowed the cottage, can readily be conceived by an artist .
upon neither of these points could i be satisfied; merely ascertaining, in regard to him, that a sudden accident in his family had caused his removal from dr  . bransby 's academy on the afternoon of the day in which i myself had eloped.
it was, especially, upon retiring to bed late in the night of the seventh or eighth day after the placing of the lady madeline within the donjon, that i experienced the full power of such feelings .
the knot by which the strings of the bonnet were fastened, was not a lady  's, but a slip or sailor's knot .
with opinions such as these was my young friend fully imbued; and thus is it especially worthy of observation that the uninterrupted enjoyment which distinguished his life was in great part the result of preconcert .
it was the opinion of both physicians that m  . valdemar would die about midnight on the morrow sunday.
let us carefully compare with each other the various communications sent to the evening paper, in which the object was to inculpate a gang .
his companionship with the deceased, a gay, but not an abject young girl, designates him as above the grade of the common sailor .
shalmanezer, as we have it in holy writings, lay three years before samaria; yet it fell .
rushing to the building, it perceived the lightning rod, clambered up with inconceivable agility, grasped the shutter, which was thrown fully back against the wall, and, by its means, swung itself directly upon the headboard of the bed .
the police are entirely at fault an unusual occurrence in affairs of this nature .
what do you mean? ''  ''why, massa, i mean de bug dare now . ''
it was the work of the rushing gust but then without those doors there did stand the lofty and enshrouded figure of the lady madeline of usher .
i had expected more resolution at his hands .
but, as the loss of his ears proved the means of elevating to the throne of cyrus, the magian or mige gush of persia, and as the cutting off his nose gave zopyrus possession of babylon, so the loss of a few ounces of my countenance proved the salvation of my body .
although in his appearance there is, to a casual observer, nothing which might bespeak him more or less than man still a feeling of irrepressible reverence and awe mingled with the sensation of wonder with which i regarded him .
and every night, about midnight, i turned the latch of his door and opened it oh so gently and then, when i had made an opening sufficient for my head, i put in a dark lantern, all closed, closed, that no light shone out, and then i thrust in my head .
you must have had occasion to observe how absolutely indispensable, of late years, to the thorough blackguard, has become the pocket handkerchief . ''
this circumstance, however, only endeared it to my wife, who, as i have already said, possessed, in a high degree, that humanity of feeling which had once been my distinguishing trait, and the source of many of my simplest and purest pleasures .
yes: the king is coming see the people are aghast with admiration, and lift up their eyes to the heavens in reverence .
but in the western or black chamber the effect of the fire light that streamed upon the dark hangings through the blood tinted panes, was ghastly in the extreme, and produced so wild a look upon the countenances of those who entered, that there were few of the company bold enough to set foot within its precincts at all .
in the most enchanting of natural landscapes, there will always be found a defect or an excess many excesses and defects .
a fearful idea now suddenly drove the blood in torrents upon my heart, and for a brief period, i once more relapsed into insensibility .
you perceive, however, that he is neither a lamb, nor a goat, nor a satyr, neither has he much resemblance to the pan of the arcadians .
a small spring of water presented itself to my view, and here, stooping, i bathed my hands and my head and neck .
i saw nothing in it of an extraordinary character, but its effect upon bedloe was prodigious .
nothing should tempt me to part with that scarabæus .
but at length reflection came to my aid .
my glance fell from the painting to the figure of my friend, and the vigorous words of chapman  's bussy d'ambois, quivered instinctively upon my lips:  ''he is up there like a roman statue he will stand till death hath made him marble ''  ''come, '' he said at length, turning towards a table of richly enamelled and massive silver, upon which were a few goblets fantastically stained, together with two large etruscan vases, fashioned in the same extraordinary model as that in the foreground of the portrait, and filled with what i supposed to be johannisberger .
now, the mean or average interval between the centres of the two planets is   . of the earth 's equatorial radii, or only about , miles.
it has a certain general relation to the various styles of building .
watson, dr  . percival, spallanzani, and especially the bishop of landaff.
the sailor had recovered his presence of mind, in a great measure, while dupin uttered these words; but his original boldness of bearing was all gone .
this alone would have sufficed to produce death .
while i was thus wrapped in admiration of this lovely vision, a sudden disturbance among the audience caused her to turn her head partially toward me, so that i beheld the entire profile of the face .
the steel rod connecting the spring with the propeller was suddenly jerked out of place, at the car end, by a swaying of the car through some movement of one of the two seamen we had taken up, and in an instant hung dangling out of reach, from the pivot of the axis of the screw .
you did look up; and i was now assured that i had correctly followed your steps .
we were in time, however, to obtain the front seats which had been reserved for us, and into which, with some little difficulty, we elbowed our way .
thus far i have faithfully said .
in the cranium of this hideous thing lay quantity of ignited charcoal, which threw a fitful but vivid light over the entire scene; while coffins, and other wares appertaining to the shop of an undertaker, were piled high up around the room, and against the windows, preventing any ray from escaping into the street .
when a madman appears thoroughly sane, indeed, it is high time to put him in a straitjacket . ''
   ''but this ascendancy, '' i interposed,  ''would depend upon the robber's knowledge of the loser's knowledge of the robber .
   ''by no means '' says the servant; and  ''by no means '' says the lady's sister and the lady's sister in law, who are summoned forthwith .
m  . maelzel, having rolled the machine back into its original position, now informs the company that the automaton will play a game of chess with any one disposed to encounter him.
of foam there was little except in the immediate vicinity of the rocks .
the house was readily found; for there were still many persons gazing up at the closed shutters, with an objectless curiosity, from the opposite side of the way .
they were eyeing, from behind a huge flagon of unpaid for  ''humming stuff, '' the portentous words,  ''no chalk, '' which to their indignation and astonishment were scored over the doorway by means of that very mineral whose presence they purported to deny .
the door to the west wing was in its gable, and quite simple a single window looked out to the south .
 ''alberto montani, confectioner, deposes that he was among the first to ascend the stairs .
of the first of these opinions we shall say nothing at present more than we have already said .
it is really a very fine amusement to ascend the rope ladder leading to the summit of the balloon bag, and thence survey the surrounding world .
in an absolute phrenzy of wrath, i turned at once upon him who had thus interrupted me, and seized him violently by the collar .
still, however, he came not .
a visiter at his office, a few days prior to the girl 's disappearance, and during the absence of its occupant, had observed a rose in the key hole of the door, and the name  ''marie '' inscribed upon a slate which hung near at hand .
to be sure, whenever we meet a balloon we have a chance of perceiving our rate, and then, i admit, things do not appear so very bad .
i leaned to the left .
man could not both know and succumb .
nor was i indeed ignorant of the flowers and the vine but the hemlock and the cypress overshadowed me night and day .
the right arm of the man within is brought across his breast, and his right fingers act, without any constraint, upon the machinery in the shoulder of the figure .
it was midnight; and you still sat by my side .
the truth is, i soon found that mrs   . w. was far oftener laughed at than with.
my wife had called my attention, more than once, to the character of the mark of white hair, of which i have spoken, and which constituted the sole visible difference between the strange beast and the one i had destroyed .
presently he shook his head, looking as pale as death, and held up one of his fingers, as if to say   'listen '  ''at first i could not make out what he meant but soon a hideous thought flashed upon me .
in such a mind, i repeat, what a host of recollections are stirred up by a trifle the dogs danced i i could not they frisked i wept .
i will therefore guess even; ' he guesses even, and wins .
in about ten minutes after starting, the barometer indicated an altitude of , feet .
i lay outstretched where i had fallen from the balloon .
the upper lip, at the same time, writhed itself away from the teeth, which it had previously covered completely; while the lower jaw fell with an audible jerk, leaving the mouth widely extended, and disclosing in full view the swollen and blackened tongue .
one experiment succeeded another, and the customary effects supervened, with nothing to characterize them in any respect, except, upon one or two occasions, a more than ordinary degree of life likeness in the convulsive action .
was again very much alarmed by a repetition of the loud, crackling noise which terrified me on the tenth .
for example: very early in the morning i had to make up my packet of sham letters .
he was remarkable in the entire and continuous profusion of good gifts ever lavished upon him by fortune .
i had left no shadow of a clew by which it would be possible to convict, or even to suspect me of the crime .
the rich although faded tapestry hangings which swung gloomily upon the walls, represented the shadowy and majestic forms of a thousand illustrious ancestors .
it wanted five minutes of noon, on the day before yesterday, when there appeared a very odd looking object on the summit of the ridge of the eastward .
after much hesitation .
it was of a jetty black; which was also the color, or more properly the no color of his unimaginable whiskers .
but these garters are found to be tightened, by the setting back of a clasp, in just such a manner as her own had been tightened by marie, shortly previous to her leaving home .
i fairly shouted with terror, and made off, at a tangent, into the farthest extremity of the room .
about an hour ago, i made bold to thrust myself among a group of the crew .
 ''mos feerd for to ventur pon dis limb berry far tis dead limb putty much all de way  . ''  ''did you say it was a dead limb, jupiter? '' cried legrand in a quavering voice.
the phrases  ''i am out of breath, ''  ''i have lost my breath, '' etc  ., are often enough repeated in common conversation; but it had never occurred to me that the terrible accident of which i speak could bona fide and actually happen imagine that is if you have a fanciful turn imagine, i say, my wonder my consternation my despair there is a good genius, however, which has never entirely deserted me.
it 's a very simple thing, indeed .
all that now remained was to fasten up the mouth of the enclosure; and this was readily accomplished by gathering the folds of the material together, and twisting them up very tightly on the inside by means of a kind of stationary tourniquet .
the moon itself was directly overhead, and consequently hidden from my view .
many are chosen, as you see, with little deference to the opinions of virtu .
in the opinion of m  . dumas, mademoiselle l 'espanaye had been throttled to death by some person or persons unknown.
a slight headache, accompanied with a sensation of fulness or distention about the wrists, the ankles, and the throat, was nearly all of which i had now to complain .
it was at nine o 'clock in the morning .
do you observe how mere an accident it was that these events should have occurred upon the sole day of all the year in which it has been, or may be, sufficiently cool for fire, and that without the fire, or without the intervention of the dog at the precise moment in which he appeared, i should never have become aware of the death 's head, and so never the possessor of the treasure? ''
there, at some obscure wharf, he would have leaped on land .
  ''a death's head '' echoed legrand  ''oh yes well, it has something of that appearance upon paper, no doubt .
let us get into a place of safety as soon as possible .
i walked the cellar from end to end .
i observed now that even the lightest vapors never rose to more than ten miles above the level of the sea .
from a loop hole near the summit of the kiosk, i perceived a vast crowd, in furious agitation, surrounding and assaulting a gay palace that overhung the river .
what this design was it is not difficult to conceive .
i took vigorous exercise .
yet the sound increased and what could i do?
it would have been wiser, it would have been safer, to classify if classify we must upon the basis of what man usually or occasionally did, and was always occasionally doing, rather than upon the basis of what we took it for granted the deity intended him to do .
they had separate apartments no doubt in contemplation of a more permanent divorce; and here, after all i thought was the mystery of the extra state room .
yes tears are gathering in those eyes and see the entire woman thrills throughout the soul, and the statue has started into life the pallor of the marble countenance, the swelling of the marble bosom, the very purity of the marble feet, we behold suddenly flushed over with a tide of ungovernable crimson; and a slight shudder quivers about her delicate frame, as a gentle air at napoli about the rich silver lilies in the grass .
 ''amontillado ''  ''and i must satisfy them . ''
he pointed to the tillers of the earth the only people who, as a class, are proverbially more happy than others and then he instanced the high ecstasies of the fox hunter .
having made up my mind to hope no more, i got rid of a great deal of that terror which unmanned me at first .
we also measured the thickness of every book cover, with the most accurate admeasurement, and applied to each the most jealous scrutiny of the microscope .
it means that a great hero, in the heat of combat, not perceiving that he had been fairly killed, continued to fight valiantly, dead as he was .
but while my lids remained thus shut, i ran over in my mind my reason for so shutting them .
in a short period it was certain, however, that a relapse had taken place; the color disappeared from both eyelid and cheek, leaving a wanness even more than that of marble; the lips became doubly shrivelled and pinched up in the ghastly expression of death; a repulsive clamminess and coldness overspread rapidly the surface of the body; and all the usual rigorous illness immediately supervened .
somebody had accosted him in the street, mistaking him for no less a personage than doctor dubble l  . dee, the lecturer upon quack physics.
they were by no means uncivilized, however, but cultivated various arts and even sciences after a fashion of their own .
he was a little, pursy, pompous, passionate semicircular somebody, with a red nose, a thick scull, sic a long purse, and a strong sense of his own consequence .
a sensation of stupor oppressed me, as my eyes followed her retreating steps .
upon passing the hand over them they seemed to have protruded from their sockets in no inconsiderable degree; and all objects in the car, and even the balloon itself, appeared distorted to my vision .
the duties, here, are simple, and not altogether unprofitable .
le don was instantly released, upon our narration of the circumstances with some comments from dupin at the bureau of the prefect of police .
in the very next published number i had the proud satisfaction of seeing my poem printed at length, as the leading article, with the following significant words, prefixed in italics and between brackets: we call the attention of our readers to the subjoined admirable stanza on  ''the oil of bob . ''
it was not until the expiration of a week that it was deemed necessary to offer a reward; and even then this reward was limited to a thousand francs .
in whatever way the shifting is managed, it is of course concealed at every step from observation .
amount entered in journal fifty cents which see   .  ''feb. .
i have keys, as you know, with which i can open any chamber or cabinet in paris .
this pamphlet was not designed for the public eye, even upon the decease of the writer, as any person at all conversant with authorship may satisfy himself at once by the slightest inspection of the style .
at length it forced it wrestled its way into my soul it burned itself in upon my shuddering reason .
     ''bless my soul why, he's the man ''  '' mandragora nor all the drowsy syrups of the world shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep which thou owd'st yesterday '' here roared our climax just in my ear, and shaking his fist in my face all the time, in a way that i couldn't stand, and i wouldn't .
 ''we set out with a fresh wind on our starboard quarter, and for some time spanked along at a great rate, never dreaming of danger, for indeed we saw not the slightest reason to apprehend it .
indeed, as the duties to be performed involve high responsibilities, and large amounts of money must necessarily pass through the hands of those engaged, it is deemed advisable to demand a deposit of fifty dollars from each clerk employed .
it seemed to have been constructed for no especial use in itself, but formed merely the interval between two of the colossal supports of the roof of the catacombs, and was backed by one of their circumscribing walls of solid granite .
 ''we had a fellow here once, '' said a fat little gentleman, who sat at my right,  ''a fellow that fancied himself a tea pot; and by the way, is it not especially singular how often this particular crotchet has entered the brain of the lunatic?
it was not possible to say how the injuries had been inflicted .
at that instant some person tried the latch of the door .
whether you ever get this letter or not is point of little importance, as i write altogether for my own amusement .
soon after dark they arrived, and gave me a most cordial welcome .
could we suppose an oversight in one, or two, or three, this oversight would have been remedied by a fourth .
the frenchman followed in despair; the ape, razor still in hand, occasionally stopping to look back and gesticulate at its pursuer, until the latter had nearly come up with it .
thus, thus, and not otherwise, shall i be lost .
the slopes which encompassed the vale could not fairly be called hills, unless at their northern face .
he at length opened it, and drawing there from a huge letter sealed with red sealing wax and tied carefully with red tape, let it fall precisely at the feet of the burgomaster, superbus von underduk .
mr   . l. makes his lens have a power of , times.
but in these accounts it is the fact it is the reality it is the history which excites .
for the hours of thy happiness are over and joy is not gathered twice in a life, as the roses of paestum twice in a year .
this opinion, idle in itself, was the one to which, as i gazed, my imagination most readily assented; and, mentioning it to the guide, i was rather surprised to hear him say that, although it was the view almost universally entertained of the subject by the norwegians, it nevertheless was not his own .
the king elevated his forehead into innumerable wrinkles; the gouty little old man puffed like a pair of bellows; the lady of the winding sheet waved her nose to and fro; the gentleman in the cotton drawers pricked up his ears; she of the shroud gasped like a dying fish; and he of the coffin looked stiff and rolled up his eyes .
i did only a retail business myself, but my old habits of system carried me swimmingly along .
the face assumed the usual pinched and sunken outline .
his talents and general amiability had recommended him to the notice of the heiress, by whom he seems to have been truly beloved; but her pride of birth decided her, finally, to reject him, and to wed a monsieur renelle, a banker and a diplomatist of some eminence .
the adroitness, too, was no less worthy of observation by which he contrived to shift the sense of the grotesque from the creator to the created from his own person to the absurdities to which he had given rise .
if any one has a critical turn, it is he .
of course i shall not pretend to consider it any matter for wonder, that the extraordinary case of m  . valdemar has excited discussion.
an officer of artillery, a man of gigantic stature and of robust health, being thrown from an unmanageable horse, received a very severe contusion upon the head, which rendered him insensible at once; the skull was slightly fractured, but no immediate danger was apprehended .
 ''proceed, '' i said;  ''herein is the amontillado .
we were fellow sojourners for a week about six years ago, at earl 's hotel, in providence, rhode island; and i presume that i conversed with him, at various times, for some three or four hours altogether .
i quaintly termed the domination of the baron ritzner von jung, ever rightly entered into the mystery which overshadowed his character .
but in a brief period i ceased to think upon the subject; my attention being all absorbed in a contemplated departure for oxford .
our man of business holds it as a point of his faith that work should never be paid for until done .
in investigations such as we are now pursuing, it should not be so much asked     'what has occurred,' as 'what has occurred that has never occurred before .'
indeed i had no fear on her account .
for a moment there was a wild lurid light alone, visiting and penetrating all things .
as it is, the constables have had a sad time of it, running hither and thither, and all they can do is to declare the man of business most emphatically, a  ''hen knee high '' by which some persons imagine them to imply that, in fact, he is n .
the sentence had passed; and it appeared to me that a very long interval of time had since elapsed .
 ''a thousand pounds, '' said i  .  ''beautiful '' said he, entranced.
we were soon overpowered by numbers, and driven to seek refuge in a species of kiosk .
why,  ''of lord cornwallis . ''
then, summoning the wild courage of despair, a throng of the revellers at once threw themselves into the black apartment, and, seizing the mummer, whose tall figure stood erect and motionless within the shadow of the ebony clock, gasped in unutterable horror at finding the grave cerements and corpse like mask which they handled with so violent a rudeness, untenanted by any tangible form .
it was riveted and studded with iron bolts, and surmounted with jagged iron spikes .
   'they were all mildewed down hard,' says le soleil, adopting the opinions of its predecessors, 'with the action of the rain, and stuck together from mildew .
the impulse increases to a wish, the wish to a desire, the desire to an uncontrollable longing, and the longing to the deep regret and mortification of the speaker, and in defiance of all consequences is indulged .
it is useless, of course, to dwell upon my joy upon my transport upon my illimitable ecstasy of heart .
they are, succinctly, these: my attention, for the last three years, had been repeatedly drawn to the subject of mesmerism; and, about nine months ago it occurred to me, quite suddenly, that in the series of experiments made hitherto, there had been a very remarkable and most unaccountable omission: no person had as yet been mesmerized in articulo mortis .
from this he read me one of the drollest chapters in the world concerning  ''injuriae per applicationem, per constructionem, et per se, '' about half of which, he averred, was strictly applicable to his own  ''refinedly peculiar '' case, although not one syllable of the whole matter could i understand for the life of me .
thus a great step has been taken .
their splendor more dazzled than enlightened me .
and then down we came with a sweep, a slide, and a plunge, that made me feel sick and dizzy, as if i was falling from some lofty mountain top in a dream .
 ''principally females, i presume? ''  ''oh, no every one of them men, and stout fellows, too, i can tell you . ''
if you see anything strange, let me know . ''
and, all this done, let us again compare these various communications with the known mss  . of the officer.
its sweep was brief, and of course slow .
the apartment was superb .
thus it is abundantly clear that the gang quitted the barrière du roule prior to the screams overheard ?
and now the comforter fled for ever, and a still sterner despair reigned triumphant; for i could not help perceiving the absence of the paddings which i had so carefully prepared and then, too, there came suddenly to my nostrils the strong peculiar odor of moist earth .
it has occurred to me, therefore, that i may as well retire from the field of letters and repose upon my laurels .
for that which was not for that which had no form for that which had no thought for that which had no sentience for that which was soulless, yet of which matter formed no portion for all this nothingness, yet for all this immortality, the grave was still a home, and the corrosive hours, co mates .
the hue of the orbs was the most brilliant of black, and, far over them, hung jetty lashes of great length .
 ''why, i will tell you, '' replied the prefect, as he gave a long, steady and contemplative puff, and settled himself in his chair .
he entered, at some length, into what he conceived to be the nature of his malady .
that certain wags in rotterdam have certain especial antipathies to certain burgomasters and astronomers .
this epoch these later years took unto themselves a sudden elevation in turpitude, whose origin alone it is my present purpose to assign .
she is the celebrated madame lalande the beauty of the day par excellence, and the talk of the whole town .
his forehead was lofty and very fair; his nose a snub; his eyes large, heavy, glassy, and meaningless .
the necessary knowledge is that of what to observe .
this noble spirited note i kissed a million times, and committed, no doubt, on its account, a thousand other extravagances that have now escaped my memory .
my supply of water had been put on board in kegs containing five gallons each, and ranged very securely around the interior of the car .
the time elapsing between the hearing of the voices in contention and the breaking open of the room door, was variously stated by the witnesses .
for a short time he remained silent, apparently striving to master his emotion .
the body of the journal, as given, is in the hand writing of mr     . mason, and a p. s. is appended, each day, by mr. ainsworth, who has in preparation, and will shortly give the public a more minute, and no doubt, a thrillingly interesting account of the voyage.
 ''something of that kind . ''
the oldest seaman in norway never experienced any thing like it .
 ''it could not have been more than two minutes afterward until we suddenly felt the waves subside, and were enveloped in foam .
there had been much in her stern nature to impress me with the belief that, to her, death would have come without its terrors; but not so .
wilson, '' said our host, stooping to remove from beneath his feet an exceedingly luxurious cloak of rare furs,  ''mr .
in a few minutes the voice was heard again, announcing that the seventh limb was attained .
oh, no, no so go home at once, now, john, to your odious old woods of concord go home to your woods, old owl go you won       't oh, poh, poh, don't do so you've got to go, you know so go at once, and don't go slow, for nobody owns you here, you know oh john, john, if you don't go you're no homo no you're only a fowl, an owl, a cow, a sow, a doll, a poll; a poor, old, good for nothing to nobody, log, dog, hog, or frog, come out of a concord bog .
when the situation of the game is difficult or complex, we never perceive the turk either shake his head or roll his eyes .
but i perceive we have arrived at the city itself .
under the circumstances of large reward offered, and full pardon to any king 's evidence, it is not to be imagined, for a moment, that some member of a gang of low ruffians, or of any body of men, would not long ago have betrayed his accomplices .
 ''this bug is to make my fortune, '' he continued, with a triumphant smile,  ''to reinstate me in my family possessions .
in the middle of the room stood a table in the centre of which again arose a huge tub of what appeared to be punch .
a fourth could only suppose it the yankee 's design to x press, in a general way, his x asperation .
i am come of a race noted for vigor of fancy and ardor of passion .
nothing is more vague than impressions of individual identity .
it is separated from the main land by a scarcely perceptible creek, oozing its way through a wilderness of reeds and slime, a favorite resort of the marsh hen .
in this manner, at last, i would perpetually catch myself pondering upon my security, and repeating, in a low undertone, the phrase,  ''i am safe . ''
who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins?
 ''i had told you that this was in reference to orion, formerly written urion; and, from certain pungencies connected with this explanation, i was aware that you could not have forgotten it .
it will appear perhaps an observation somewhat over curious, but this wood would have every characteristic of spanish oak, if spanish oak were distended by any unnatural means .
in this narrative i have therefore designated myself as william wilson, a fictitious title not very dissimilar to the real .
his eye would trouble me no more .
here was, indeed, the fairest field for the display of invention, or imagination, in the endless combining of forms of novel beauty; the elements which should enter into combination being, at all times, and by a vast superiority, the most glorious which the earth could afford .
the fact is, sir humphrey davy was about the last man in the world to commit himself on scientific topics .
now, all this is the result either of inability in maelzel to do better, or of intentional neglect accidental neglect being out of the question, when we consider that the whole time of the ingenious proprietor is occupied in the improvement of his machines .
yes i repeat it as thou shouldst be .
 ''in greek we must have some thing pretty from demosthenes, for example .
here the well written and urgent communications to the journals are much in the way of corroboration .
but not so: he was made to diddle .
they say too that the whole expression of my countenance had changed .
we peer into the abyss we grow sick and dizzy .
the very letters have an air of profundity about them .
the great problem is accomplished .
let us suppose, gentle reader, that it is now the year of the world three thousand eight hundred and thirty, and let us, for a few minutes, imagine ourselves at that most grotesque habitation of man, the remarkable city of antioch .
by what miracle i escaped destruction, it is impossible to say .
but in all this in this identification of mere matter with god is there nothing of irreverence?
other nurses were procured; and at ten o 'clock i left the house in company with the two physicians and mr  . l l.
stupified and aghast, i had myself no power to move from the upright position i had assumed upon first hearing the shriek, and must have presented to the eyes of the agitated group a spectral and ominous appearance, as with pale countenance and rigid limbs, i floated down among them in that funereal gondola .
is it wonderful that the one known atrocity should influence the popular judgment in regard to the other unknown?
i have seen the captain face to face, and in his own cabin but, as i expected, he paid me no attention .
and the man listened to the sighs of the water lilies, and to the murmur that came up from among them .
 ''humph '' said i, twisting it to one side .
p  . still, there is one of your expressions which i find it impossible to comprehend  ''the truly substantive vastness of infinity. ''
thus it will be seen that no two of the candles are of the same height, and thus also the difficulty of ascertaining the material of the breast of the figure against which the light is especially directed is greatly augmented by the dazzling effect of the complicated crossings of the rays crossings which are brought about by placing the centres of radiation all upon different levels  . .
look over channing   's poems and quote what he says about a 'fat little man with a delusive show of can  .' put in something about the supernal oneness.
there can be no doubt, as we have before observed, and as we will presently endeavor to show, that the principle, or rather the result, of this solution is the true one .
pluto had not a white hair upon any portion of his body; but this cat had a large, although indefinite splotch of white, covering nearly the whole region of the breast .
 ''and you never confined your patients? ''
indeed, the direction i had hitherto taken, had filled me with uneasiness; for it was evident that, had i continued it much longer, there would have been no possibility of my arriving at the moon at all, whose orbit is inclined to the ecliptic at only the small angle of degrees  '  ''  .  ''april th.
he is usually removed to the public hospitals . ''
greek phrase anerh o pheugoen kai palin makesetai there is a tolerably good translation of it in hudibras    'for he that flies may fight again, which he can never do that's slain  .'  ''in a blackwood article nothing makes so fine a show as your greek.
i could have clasped the red walls to my bosom as a garment of eternal peace .
from the position near the stone wall, as described, the buildings were seen at great advantage for the southeastern angle was thrown forward so that the eye took in at once the whole of the two fronts, with the picturesque eastern gable, and at the same time obtained just a sufficient glimpse of the northern wing, with parts of a pretty roof to the spring house, and nearly half of a light bridge that spanned the brook in the near vicinity of the main buildings .
this difference is sufficient to cause the body to sink, as a general rule; but is insufficient in the cases of individuals with small bones and an abnormal quantity of flaccid or fatty matter .
quite an analogous diddle is this .
what demon urged me to breathe that sound, which in its very recollection was wont to make ebb the purple blood in torrents from the temples to the heart?
in this way the coach proceeded until it arrived opposite the chair of the young prince .
she swallowed the wine unhesitatingly, and i forbore to speak to her of a circumstance which must, after all, i considered, have been but the suggestion of a vivid imagination, rendered morbidly active by the terror of the lady, by the opium, and by the hour .
we all sign the initials of the society after our names, in the fashion of the r        . s. a., royal society of arts the s. d. u. k., society for the diffusion of useful knowledge, c, c.
for the convulsive pressure of that trembling hand? that hand which fell, as mentoni turned into the palace, accidentally, upon the hand of the stranger .
he boasted to me, with a low chuckling laugh, that most men, in respect to himself, wore windows in their bosoms, and was wont to follow up such assertions by direct and very startling proofs of his intimate knowledge of my own .
the risk of the achievement was, in fact, now over, although the climber was some sixty or seventy feet from the ground .
v  . i am willing to do so, but it requires more effort than i feel able to make.
this is no hypothesis .
these works i cut up thoroughly with a currycomb, and then, throwing the shreds into a sieve, sifted out carefully all that might be thought decent, a mere trifle; reserving the hard phrases, which i threw into a large tin pepper castor with longitudinal holes, so that an entire sentence could get through without material injury .
in the mean time my friend occupied himself, with what seemed to me a minuteness altogether objectless, in a scrutiny of the various newspaper files .
 ''where can he be? '' said little miss bas bleu .
but, unhappily, in proportion to the increase of size in the lens, and consequently of space penetrating power, is the diminution of light from the object, by diffusion of its rays .
 ''that was the evidence itself, '' said dupin,  ''but it was not the peculiarity of the evidence .
that the true result of the natural style of gardening is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles, is a proposition better suited to the grovelling apprehension of the herd than to the fervid dreams of the man of genius .
the day passed, and still he did not return .
he was a fool, beyond doubt, whoever he was, and got not a kick more than he deserved .
you appeared so utterly astonished .
we know that it will be ruinous to make delay .
my distance from the moon was comparatively trifling, while the labor required by the condenser was diminished not at all, and i could discover no indication whatever of a decreasing rarity in the air .
after pressing valdemar  's hand, i took these gentlemen aside, and obtained from them a minute account of the patient's condition .
it appeared to me indeed i was quite confident of the fact i could not be mistaken no i had, for some moments, carefully and anxiously observed the motions of my diana i say that i could not be mistaken diana smelt a rat at once i called pompey 's attention to the subject, and he he agreed with me .
the worldly reason, however, assigned for this singular proceeding, was one which i did not feel at liberty to dispute .
it extends to the uttermost ends of the earth .
and here let me pause to insinuate a question .
the flag of the death 's head is hoisted in all engagements .
it was the first time i had ever known wyatt to keep from me any of his artistical secrets; but here he evidently intended to steal a march upon me, and smuggle a fine picture to new york, under my very nose; expecting me to know nothing of the matter .
the focal length is feet .
the tints of the green carpet faded; and, one by one, the ruby red asphodels withered away; and there sprang up, in place of them, ten by ten, dark, eye like violets, that writhed uneasily and were ever encumbered with dew .
to day  's sunday isn't it?
the old porpoise, as i opened the drawing room door, was sitting with his feet upon the mantel piece, and a bumper of port in his paw, making strenuous efforts to accomplish the ditty .
but this feeling did not fail to die rapidly away, and thereunto succeeded horror, and dismay, and a chilling sense of utter helplessness and ruin .
 ''try it by yourselves the man is surely mad but stay how long do you propose to be absent? ''
speak not here of these griefs, dear una mine, mine, forever now una .
hereupon all, one after another there were nine in company, believed it their duty to pull me by the ear .
i began to find great difficulty in drawing my breath .
apart from the tendency to trance, however, my general health appeared to be good; nor could i perceive that it was at all affected by the one prevalent malady unless, indeed, an idiosyncrasy in my ordinary sleep may be looked upon as superinduced .
dreams are with us no more; but of these mysteries anon .
you are number two, and must look to yourself .
 ''your generosity is boundless .
the riots, the combat, the massacre, were the actual events of the insurrection of cheyte sing, which took place in , when hastings was put in imminent peril of his life .
upon due reflection i frankly admit the propriety of the explanation you suggest .
it lay in a remote turret of the building .
thus novalis errs not in saying that   'we are near waking when we dream that we dream .'
the latter was pumped on them daily .
this was a reflection of a nature somewhat startling .
the next step is to advertise, after some such fashion as this, in the principal business six pennies of the city the pennies are eschewed as not  ''respectable '' and as demanding payment for all advertisements in advance .
in speaking of the air, i referred only to the earth; but the general proposition has reference to impulses upon the ether which, since it pervades, and alone pervades all space, is thus the great medium of creation .
i must except, however, wyatt and his sisters, who behaved stiffly, and, i could not help thinking, uncourteously to the rest of the party .
for my part, i am by no means sure that a pumpkin pie a la desoulieres would not have been very capital eating indeed ''  ''you astonish me '' said i; and i looked inquisitively at monsieur maillard .
 ''perhaps so, '' said i;  ''but, legrand, i fear you are no artist .
it is my firm intention to cut the shop .
and since we see clearly that the endowment of matter with vitality is a principle indeed, as far as our judgments extend, the leading principle in the operations of deity, it is scarcely logical to imagine it confined to the regions of the minute, where we daily trace it, and not extending to those of the august .
the description of the wings of the man bat, on page , is but a literal copy of peter wilkins ' account of the wings of his flying islanders .
 ''his attempts at getting on have been mere abortions, and his circumgyratory proceedings a palpable failure .
she was freighted with cotton wool and oil, from the lachadive islands .
but the action produced an effect altogether unanticipated .
but this is a point, it appears, somewhat above or beneath the understanding of the prefect .
it was solely, therefore, on account of having been misinformed, that mr  . bullet head found himself in alex suppose we call it nopolis,   'for short' but, as he did find himself there, he determined to keep up his character for obst for firmness, and remain.
it 's man fred, i say, and not at all by any means man friday . ''
its immense weight caused an unusually sharp grating sound, as it moved upon its hinges .
would to god that i had never beheld them, or that, having done so, i had died the shutting of a door disturbed me, and, looking up, i found that my cousin had departed from the chamber .
his nose remained buried in the mass of flesh which enveloped his round, full, and purple face; and his thick upper lip rested upon the still thicker one beneath with an air of complacent self satisfaction, much heightened by the owner 's habit of licking them at intervals .
from fifteen to twenty, not a day passed in which he did not promise to cut me off with a shilling .
when i say proficiency, i mean that perfection in the game which includes a comprehension of all the sources whence legitimate advantage may be derived .
the man was a fool, you see .
i dug eagerly, and now and then caught myself actually looking, with something that very much resembled expectation, for the fancied treasure, the vision of which had demented my unfortunate companion .
the italian believes it the voice of a russian, but   'has never conversed with a native of russia .'
but the shadow was vague, and formless, and indefinite, and was the shadow neither of man nor of god neither god of greece, nor god of chaldaea, nor any egyptian god .
he had been with me a fellow student at c university, where we were very much together .
the good people of paris might have heard of me no more .
the cold was intense, and obliged me to wrap up closely in an overcoat .
 ''in respect to the insinuations levelled at beauvais, you will be willing to dismiss them in a breath .
 ''two very decided failures, of late those of mr  . henson and sir george cayley had much weakened the public interest in the subject of aerial navigation.
above all, i am known .
for a long time he would eat nothing but thistles; but of this idea we soon cured him by insisting upon his eating nothing else .
he places his head upon the pillow .
i say that these which are the laws of mesmerism in its general features it would be supererogation to demonstrate; nor shall i inflict upon my readers so needless a demonstration; to day .
not that the spirit of each rapid passion failed, at any time, to throw its own distinct image upon the mirror of that face but that the mirror, mirror like, retained no vestige of the passion, when the passion had departed .
even de l 'omelette pronounced it bien comme il faut .
modern discoveries, indeed, in what may be termed ethical magnetism or magnetoesthetics, render it probable that the most natural, and, consequently, the truest and most intense of the human affections are those which arise in the heart as if by electric sympathy in a word, that the brightest and most enduring of the psychal fetters are those which are riveted by a glance .
in shutting up the box no particular order is observed, except that the folding doors are always closed before the drawer .
most assuredly we must not refer the unlife like appearances to inability for all the rest of maelzel 's automata are evidence of his full ability to copy the motions and peculiarities of life with the most wonderful exactitude .
it had divided the serge of the robe .
under cover of the widely projecting eave these steps gave access to a door leading to the garret, or rather loft for it was lighted only by a single window to the north, and seemed to have been intended as a store room .
its whole interior is apparently filled with wheels, pinions, levers, and other machinery, crowded very closely together, so that the eye can penetrate but a little distance into the mass .
in the lower ends of these tubes are holes in which the pivots of the axis revolve .
and even far more than this, in remedy of the defective composition, each insulated member of the fraternity will suggest the identical emendation .
had he not skimmed over père le brun? was he not a member of the club vingt un?  ''si je perds, '' said he,  ''je serai deux fois perdu i shall be doubly dammed voilà tout here his grace shrugged his shoulders .
this was a lesson which i took desperately to heart .
i was utterly astounded; and, for a moment, was quite at a loss what to do .
it then stopped, the page descended and opened the door, the lady alighted, and presented a petition to her sovereign .
now, brought to this conclusion in so unequivocal a manner as we are, it is not our part, as reasoners, to reject it on account of apparent impossibilities .
 ''my son, '' said he, when we were seated,  ''what is the chief end of your existence? ''
it is, nevertheless, amusing to observe that l 'etoile insists upon its point in the full belief of its furthering its general argument .
madame l 'espanaye and her daughter lived an exceedingly retired life saw no company seldom went out had little use for numerous changes of habiliment .
captain barclay, who walked against time, would not walk against him .
this latter print endeavors to combat that portion of the paragraph which has reference to    'drowned bodies' only, by citing some five or six instances in which the bodies of individuals known to be drowned were found floating after the lapse of less time than is insisted upon by l'etoile .
from his inscrutable tyranny did i at length flee, panic stricken, as from a pestilence; and to the very ends of the earth i fled in vain .
the thought of nature still remained, but her character seemed to have undergone modification, there was a weird symmetry, a thrilling uniformity, a wizard propriety in these her works .
nevertheless, what could be seen was of a nature singular and exciting .
i would have them allow what they cannot refrain from allowing that, although temptation may have erewhile existed as great, man was never thus, at least, tempted before certainly, never thus fell .
one or two strokes of a spade upturned the blade of a large spanish knife, and, as we dug farther, three or four loose pieces of gold and silver coin came to light .
he bore aloft a drawn dagger, and had approached, in rapid impetuosity, to within three or four feet of the retreating figure, when the latter, having attained the extremity of the velvet apartment, turned suddenly and confronted his pursuer .
in its exercise i found a wild delight yet a delight still physical, inasmuch as the understanding had in it no part .
don  't believe it don't believe a word of it .
 ''in that point he is unrivalled indeed he is a perfect desperado a down right fire eater, and no mistake, '' said my friend, here dropping his voice excessively low, and thrilling me with the mystery of his tone .
the shade of the trees fell heavily upon the water, and seemed to bury itself therein, impregnating the depths of the element with darkness .
indeed what gentleman or lady either of sense, wouldn 't die, i should like to know, for a well fattened capon of the right molucca breed, stuffed with capers and mushrooms, and served up in a salad bowl, with orange jellies en mosaiques .
what fiend spoke from the recesses of my soul, when amid those dim aisles, and in the silence of the night, i whispered within the ears of the holy man the syllables morella?
we proceed now with the journal, as transcribed by mr  . forsyth from the joint mss.
a smoky mist, resembling that of the indian summer, enveloped all things, and of course, added to my uncertainty .
the clock strikes unable to restrain his feelings, his grace swallows an olive .
found in a bottle, '' was originally published in , and it was not until many years afterwards that i became acquainted with the maps of mercator, in which the ocean is represented as rushing, by four mouths, into the northern polar gulf, to be absorbed into the bowels of the earth; the pole itself being represented by a black rock, towering to a prodigious height .
this thicket, although dense, was in the close vicinity of a public road .
the exhibiter now proceeds to open the drawer which lies beneath the cupboards at the bottom of the box for although there are apparently two drawers, there is really only one the two handles and two key holes being intended merely for ornament .
he would not only have fled from the wharf, but he would not have permitted the boat to remain .
you will here bear in mind that the arguments urged against the thicket as the scene, are applicable in chief part, only against it as the scene of an outrage committed by more than a single individual .
a strange odor loaded the breeze .
they were these: lo  'tis a gala night within the lonesome latter years an angel throng, bewinged, bedight in veils, and drowned in tears, sit in a theatre, to see a play of hopes and fears, while the orchestra breathes fitfully the music of the spheres .
i paused again, and this time i made bold to seize fortunato by an arm above the elbow .
yet was she woman, and pined away daily .
the teeth the teeth they were here, and there, and everywhere, and visibly and palpably before me; long, narrow, and excessively white, with the pale lips writhing about them, as in the very moment of their first terrible development .
the valet at once fell into the rear, and now, with hearts full to overflowing, we discoursed long and unreservedly of our love .
why is it folly to suppose that the murder was committed at any given period of the day?
there was a primness, not to say stiffness, in his carriage a degree of measured, and, if i may so express it, of rectangular precision, attending his every movement, which, observed in a more diminutive figure, would have had the least little savor in the world, of affectation, pomposity or constraint, but which noticed in a gentleman of his undoubted dimensions, was readily placed to the account of reserve, hauteur of a commendable sense, in short, of what is due to the dignity of colossal proportion .
from the manner of gathering up a trick he judges whether the person taking it can make another in the suit .
but the under surfaces of the huge masses of agitated vapor, as well as all terrestrial objects immediately around us, were glowing in the unnatural light of a faintly luminous and distinctly visible gaseous exhalation which hung about and enshrouded the mansion .
i knew that he had been lying awake ever since the first slight noise, when he had turned in the bed .
aries tottle  's mode, in a word, was based on noumena; hog's on phenomena .
the canoe falls into the lesser channel and approaches the gate .
that she did meet some companion, and proceed with him across the river, reaching the barrière du roule at so late an hour as three o 'clock in the afternoon, is known .
and methinks, sweet una, even our slumbering sense of the forced and of the far fetched might have arrested us here .
travelling on land has been repeatedly accomplished at the rate of thirty miles per hour, and indeed a much greater speed may be anticipated .
to the right of this compartment, however, that is to say the spectators ' right a small division, six inches wide, and filled with machinery, is partitioned off .
then a strong desire to lapse into insensibility .
to the right arise a chain of lofty hills rudely and luxuriantly wooded .
i was galled, too, by the rumor touching a relationship, which had grown current in the upper forms .
as i mentioned the word  ''remuneration, '' mr  . crab first opened his eyes, and then his mouth, to quite a remarkable extent; causing his personal appearance to resemble that of a highly agitated elderly duck in the act of quacking; and in this condition he remained, ever and anon pressing his hands tightly to his forehead, as if in a state of desperate bewilderment until i had nearly made an end of what i had to say.
in this, i succeeded to a miracle; and to every question or suggestion found myself at liberty to reply in my most frog like and sepulchral tones with some passage from the tragedy any portion of which, as i soon took great pleasure in observing, would apply equally well to any particular subject .
the rudder is now at the barge office . ''
what is true of relation of form and quantity is often grossly false in regard to morals, for example .
would it be a rash wager a wager of one thousand to one that a day never passed over the heads of these boys without finding at least one of them ensconced in the umbrageous hall, and enthroned upon its natural throne?
thus, ordinarily, should it have appeared, only after long pressure from azrael 's hand .
twenty years afterward, the two returned to france, in the persuasion that time had so greatly altered the lady 's appearance that her friends would be unable to recognize her .
the articles found in the thicket were fully identified by the relatives of marie .
it must, it shall be undertaken to day, and yet we put it off until to morrow, and why?
in history of these regions i met with a ray from the future .
by the time that it wanted only three minutes to noon, the droll object in question was perceived to be a very diminutive foreign looking young man .
this is the idea of a man long resident in paris a public man and one whose walks to and fro in the city, have been mostly limited to the vicinity of the public offices .
yes, it was of death i spoke .
thou wast curiously scented, and labelled as per invoice .
 ''the whole of this paragraph must now appear a tissue of inconsequence and incoherence .
when he had gone, my friend entered into some explanations .
here, after encircling the tree, it passed on a little to the north of east, leaving the tulip tree some twenty feet to the south, and making no decided alteration in its course until it came near the midway between the eastern and western boundaries of the valley .
little attention had been paid to the decora of what is technically called keeping, or to the proprieties of nationality .
this brings about a training of birds, to serve the purpose of carrier pigeons between them .
there was only one bedstead; and from this the bed had been removed, and thrown into the middle of the floor .
in the meantime, it was observed by all on board, that he avoided her in the most pointed manner, and, for the most part, shut himself up alone in his state room, where, in fact, he might have been said to live altogether, leaving his wife at full liberty to amuse herself as she thought best, in the public society of the main cabin .
glancing upward at the clock on the mantel piece, for i felt too drowsy to take out my watch, i had the pleasure to find that i had still twenty five minutes to spare .
here your countenance brightened up, and, perceiving your lips move, i could not doubt that you murmured the word   'stereotomy,' a term very affectedly applied to this species of pavement .
the result of decomposition is the generation of gas, distending the cellular tissues and all the cavities, and giving the puffed appearance which is so horrible .
his countenance, i thought, wore a mingled expression of low cunning and perplexity .
at the first dawn of the morning we closed all the messy shutters of our old building; lighting a couple of tapers which, strongly perfumed, threw out only the ghastliest and feeblest of rays .
there are scoundrels in this world, i remembered with a sigh, who will not scruple to take unfair opportunities with even a next door neighbor, and this remark is from epictetus it is precisely at that time when men are most anxious to throw off the burden of their own calamities that they feel the least desirous of relieving them in others .
 ''looking beyond these words, for a short distance, we again see the combination;, and employ it by way of termination to what immediately precedes .
but upon this subject i cannot bear to dilate .
all in vain; because death, in approaching him had stalked with his black shadow before him, and enveloped the victim .
 ''who pe you, '' he asked,  ''und what der teuffel you pe do dare? ''
   ''the poem over the signature 'snob' is, we find, attracting universal commendation, and, we are constrained to say, deserves, if possible, even more applause than it has received .
 ''yes have changed very much, as you see '' chimed in the whole company at once .
while i spoke, there came a marked change over the countenance of the sleep waker .
te angel ab not te wing, and i am te angel ov te odd  . ''  ''and your business with me at present is is ''  ''my pizzness '' ejaculated the thing,  ''vy vat a low bred buppy you mos pe vor to ask a gentleman und an angel apout his pizziness '' this language was rather more than i could bear, even from an angel; so, plucking up courage, i seized a salt cellar which lay within reach, and hurled it at the head of the intruder.
it was a low, dull, quick sound much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton .
it was not to be borne .
at another, i resolved to dig a grave for it in the floor of the cellar .
i as yet suffered no bodily inconvenience, breathing with great freedom, and feeling no pain whatever in the head .
having found the wine, i recrossed the chamber, and poured out a gobletful, which i held to the lips of the fainting lady .
 ''how was it possible, '' i asked,  ''that you should know the man to be a sailor, and belonging to a maltese vessel? ''  ''i do not know it, '' said dupin .
in general, there is no alternative but experiment directed by probabilities of every tongue known to him who attempts the solution, until the true one be attained .
 ''well, a kid then pretty much the same thing . ''
but evil things, in robes of sorrow, assailed the monarch 's high estate; ah, let us mourn, for never morrow shall dawn upon him, desolate and, round about his home, the glory that blushed and bloomed is but a dim remembered story of the old time entombed .
but, for myself, the earth 's records had taught me to look for widest ruin as the price of highest civilization .
his eyes, vacant in expression, regarded only the wall .
a snowy white and gauze like drapery seemed to be nearly the sole covering to her delicate form; but the mid summer and midnight air was hot, sullen, and still, and no motion in the statue like form itself, stirred even the folds of that raiment of very vapor which hung around it as the heavy marble hangs around the niobe .
in the matter of eyes, also, my acquaintance was pre eminently endowed .
you will, therefore, please your majesty, be so good as to take the will for the deed for by no manner of means either can i or will i swallow another drop least of all a drop of that villainous bilge water that answers to the hall of   'black strap .' ''
a marked sensation immediately ensued .
those in the rear were always closed, with the exception of the large back room, fourth story .
and farther: in what i relate it will be seen that between the fate of the unhappy mary cecilia rogers, so far as that fate is known, and the fate of one marie rogêt up to a certain epoch in her history, there has existed a parallel in the contemplation of whose wonderful exactitude the reason becomes embarrassed .
he has been much admired by mr  . john neal, and was a great man in a small way.
had i made the wild attempt you suggest, i might never have left the ministerial presence alive .
 ''and now, mon ami, '' said she, taking my hand, and so interrupting this train of reflection,  ''and now, mon cher ami, since we are indissolubly one since i have yielded to your passionate entreaties, and performed my portion of our agreement i presume you have not forgotten that you also have a little favor to bestow a little promise which it is your intention to keep .
the phrase quoted may mean any thing, or nothing, and guides in no degree .
it is now rendered necessary that i give the facts as far as i comprehend them myself .
this was a state of things not to be endured .
in accomplishing this point, i was urged partly, and perhaps principally, by a regretful memory of the deceased, but also, in part, by an uneasy, and not altogether horrorless curiosity respecting yourself .
and for this trash of trash, we are modestly requested to   'pay promptly .'
you can get a music mill for a mere song, and to put it in order, you have but to open the works, and give them three or four smart raps with a hammer .
be of heart and fear nothing .
my daughter, mademoiselle moissart, she marry von monsieur voissart, and de name is bot ver respectaable name . ''
this last was much soiled and crumpled .
i verily believe that my ill looks alone saved me a flogging .
mr   . henson, accompanied by his friend mr. ainsworth, was admitted to a private view of the balloon, on saturday last when the two gentlemen made final arrangements to be included in the adventure.
me feered de bug what i keer for de bug? ''
these orders were sufficient, i well knew, to insure their immediate disappearance, one and all, as soon as my back was turned .
in these various brochures the aim is always satirical; the theme being a description of lunarian customs as compared with ours .
   ''you will say, no doubt, using the language of the law, that 'to make out my case,' i should rather undervalue, than insist upon a full estimation of the activity required in this matter .
nature had endowed him with no neck, and had placed his ankles as usual with that race in the middle of the upper portion of the feet .
the countenance evinces no ingenuity, and is surpassed, in its resemblance to the human face, by the very commonest of wax works .
the year had been a year of terror, and of feelings more intense than terror for which there is no name upon the earth .
so i did not abandon the search until i had become fully satisfied that the thief is a more astute man than myself .
as regards vegetation, as well as in respect to every thing else, the scene softened and sloped to the south .
having thus completed a magazine article, i gave it, for appellation,    ''fol lol, by the author of 'the oil of bob,' '' and enveloped it to the  ''goosetherumfoodle . ''
retaining some presence of mind, i took the one offered me by preston; placed it, unnoticed, over my own; left the apartment with a resolute scowl of defiance; and, next morning ere dawn of day, commenced a hurried journey from oxford to the continent, in a perfect agony of horror and of shame .
but the unparticled matter, set in motion by a law, or quality, existing within itself, is thinking .
there was then no longer any reasonable room for doubt .
i attached the car, therefore, and put all my implements in it not forgetting the condensing apparatus, a copious supply of water, and a large quantity of provisions, such as pemmican, in which much nutriment is contained in comparatively little bulk .
by means of a crow bar i easily dislodged the bricks, and, having carefully deposited the body against the inner wall, i propped it in that position, while, with little trouble, i re laid the whole structure as it originally stood .
but to the inorganic beings to the angels the whole of the unparticled matter is substance that is to say, the whole of what we term  ''space '' is to them the truest substantiality; the stars, meantime, through what we consider their materiality, escaping the angelic sense, just in proportion as the unparticled matter, through what we consider its immateriality, eludes the organic .
volition i had none, but appeared to be impelled into motion, and flitted buoyantly out of the city, retracing the circuitous path by which i had entered it .
wonder if she remembers the old adage about  ''blood out of a turnip, '' c  .? mem.
  ''having prescribed thus a limit to suit its own preconceived notions; having assumed that, if this were the body of marie, it could have been in the water but a very brief time; the journal goes on to say: 'all experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the water .
in the possibility of any improvement, properly so called, being effected by man himself in the general condition of man, he had i am sorry to confess it little faith .
   ''here, then, '' said dupin to me,  ''you have precisely what you demand to make the ascendancy complete the robber's knowledge of the loser's knowledge of the robber . ''
this is just; and the reference to the sense of human interest is equally so .
in an instant i was precipitated and had the misfortune to fracture my arm .
taking a step forward, it has been his misfortune to take two toward the right, and three toward the left .
at twenty five minutes past five in the afternoon, precisely, the huge minute hand had proceeded sufficiently far on its terrible revolution to sever the small remainder of my neck .
the car is much smaller and lighter, in proportion, than the one appended to the model .
 ''von '' echoed every little old gentleman in every leather bottomed arm chair in vondervotteimittiss  .  ''von '' said his watch also;  ''von '' said the watch of his vrow; and  ''von '' said the watches of the boys, and the little gilt repeaters on the tails of the cat and pig.
the bandage about the jaws was a silk handkerchief in which i had bound up my head, in default of my customary nightcap .
then i came suddenly into still noonday solitudes, where no wind of heaven ever intruded, and where vast meadows of poppies, and slender, lily looking flowers spread themselves out a weary distance, all silent and motionless forever .
next evening found me a somewhat late visitor at the rantipole theatre, where i felt sure of satisfying my curiosity at once, by merely stepping into the box of those exquisite specimens of affability and omniscience, the misses arabella and miranda cognoscenti .
madame deluc 's attention was called to the dress worn by the girl, on account of its resemblance to one worn by a deceased relative .
she, too, was quite a child when married; and her mother, also, madame moissart, was only fourteen when led to the altar .
with the particles of the oily and spicy viand which now remained, i thoroughly rubbed the bandage wherever i could reach it; then, raising my hand from the floor, i lay breathlessly still .
there are six candles on the board of the automaton during exhibition .
it grew louder louder louder and still the men chatted pleasantly, and smiled .
i mean the truth of gravitation .
yonder are islesen, hotholm, keildhelm, suarven, and buckholm .
i would be an editor i would be a poet i would pen stanzas to the    'oil of bob  .' pardon me and aid me to be great ''  ''my dear thingum, '' replied my father, i had been christened thingum after a wealthy relative so surnamed,  ''my dear thingum, '' he said, raising me from my knees by the ears  ''thingum, my boy, you're a trump, and take after your father in having a soul.
when i die i will bequeath you the   'lollipop .'
overpowered by an intense sentiment of horror, unaccountable yet unendurable, i threw on my clothes with haste for i felt that i should sleep no more during the night, and endeavored to arouse myself from the pitiable condition into which i had fallen, by pacing rapidly to and fro through the apartment .
very little dependence is to be placed upon it, in my humble opinion; and if i were not well aware, from experience, how very easily men of science are mystified, on points out of their usual range of inquiry, i should be profoundly astonished at finding so eminent a chemist as professor draper, discussing mr  . kissam  's or is it mr. quizzem's?
he had opened his oblong box, in order to feast his eyes on the pictorial treasure within .
they had issued from the well, which lay just within view to my right .
 ''that i certainly will, mr   . blackwood, '' said i.  ''good '' he replied.
no path was trodden in its vicinity; and, to reach our happy home, there was need of putting back, with force, the foliage of many thousands of forest trees, and of crushing to death the glories of many millions of fragrant flowers .
her starboard side was next the whirl, and on the larboard arose the world of ocean we had left .
i could not help thinking of the wild ritual of this work, and of its probable influence upon the hypochondriac, when, one evening, having informed me abruptly that the lady madeline was no more, he stated his intention of preserving her corpse for a fortnight, previously to its final interment, in one of the numerous vaults within the main walls of the building .
and not only could such a thing do this, but at any epoch, should a given result be afforded him should one of these numberless comets, for example, be presented to his inspection he could have no difficulty in determining, by the analytic retrogradation, to what original impulse it was due .
the choice spots over here among the rocks, however, not only yield the finest variety, but in far greater abundance; so that we often got in a single day, what the more timid of the craft could not scrape together in a week .
his nose was prodigiously long, crooked, and inflammatory; his eyes full, brilliant, and acute; his chin and cheeks, although wrinkled with age, were broad, puffy, and double; but of ears of any kind or character there was not a semblance to be discovered upon any portion of his head .
the weight of these valuables exceeded three hundred and fifty pounds avoirdupois; and in this estimate i have not included one hundred and ninety seven superb gold watches; three of the number being worth each five hundred dollars, if one .
and in the direction or concentration of this effort, or, still more properly, in its adaption to the eyes which were to behold it upon earth, he perceived that he should be employing the best means laboring to the greatest advantage in the fulfilment of his destiny as t .
against a pretty stiff breeze, i feel convinced, we can make our way with the propeller .
for weeks, for months, i pondered upon the means of the murder .
the room, although ill contrived, smoke blackened, low pitched, and in every other respect agreeing with the general character of such places at the period was, nevertheless, in the opinion of the grotesque groups scattered here and there within it, sufficiently well adapted to its purpose .
i assume upon myself to say, that no individual, of however great genius ever wrote with a good pen understand me, a good article .
i looked upon my future felicity as secured .
the one wrote a jeremiad about usury, and was called jeremy bentham .
whenever a rich old hunks or prodigal heir or bankrupt corporation gets into the notion of putting up a palace, there is no such thing in the world as stopping either of them, and this every intelligent person knows .
 'the pieces of the frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six inches long .
northwardly from that huge rim before mentioned, and which, with slight qualification, may be called the limit of human discovery in these regions, one unbroken, or nearly unbroken, sheet of ice continues to extend .
i really believe you don 't know me at all . ''
it was clear, therefore, that you would not fail to combine the two ideas of orion and chantilly .
its beauty even exceeded my anticipations and yet there was something about it which disappointed me without my being able to tell exactly what it was .
he was essentially a  ''theorist '' that word now of so much sanctity, formerly an epithet of contempt .
i felt sufficiently safe, therefore, and composed myself to my slumbers forthwith .
nothing of importance occurred, and i passed the day in reading, having taken care to supply myself with books .
and then the stately grace of the clean, delicately granulated columnar stems, the largest four feet in diameter, at twenty from the ground .
a very simple diddle, indeed, is this .
i had finished a portion of the last and the eleventh; there remained but a single stone to be fitted and plastered in .
they behaved remarkably well especially so, any one of sense might have known that some devilish scheme was brewing from that particular fact, that the fellows behaved so remarkably well .
heavens the town is swarming with wild beasts how terrible a spectacle how dangerous a peculiarity '' terrible, if you please; but not in the least degree dangerous .
we have the name of the lothario in question, who is, at present, stationed in paris, but, for obvious reasons, forbear to make it public . ''
his excellency stooped to take it up .
 ''see see '' cried he, shrieking in my ears,  ''almighty god see see '' as he spoke, i became aware of a dull, sullen glare of red light which streamed down the sides of the vast chasm where we lay, and threw a fitful brilliancy upon our deck .
i had heard the noise, however faint, and my soul was awakened within me .
had i been able to meet with it, at the moment, there could have been no doubt of its fate; but it appeared that the crafty animal had been alarmed at the violence of my previous anger, and forebore to present itself in my present mood .
could i have depended, indeed, upon jupiter  's aid, i would have had no hesitation in attempting to get the lunatic home by force; but i was too well assured of the old negro's disposition, to hope that he would assist me, under any circumstances, in a personal contest with his master .
on each side of the chest, near the top, were three rings of iron six in all by means of which a firm hold could be obtained by six persons .
an eyeglass, on the other hand, has a savor of downright foppery and affectation .
 ''that will do must try it again . ''
 ''this thicket was a singular an exceedingly singular one .
but you speak merely of impulses upon the air .
looking at my watch, i found it six o 'clock .
yet the effect is incongruous to the timid alone .
i shall be done by and by, and then you may begin .
in case of his suspicions with regard to my existence proving ultimately correct, he, in the meantime, made an incision in my stomach, and removed several of my viscera for private dissection .
the shrieks were continued until the gate was forced and then suddenly ceased .
i fancied that it stood on end with indignation .
one was an elm of fine size and exquisite form: it stood guard over the southern gate of the vale .
during the fall of the year , while residing near charlottesville, virginia, i casually made the acquaintance of mr  . augustus bedloe.
i could hardly forbear laughing in his face while he proceeded to discuss, with the profoundest gravity, what he termed  ''the refinedly peculiar character '' of the insult he had received .
we suffered much, and made a narrow escape, but fortune befriended us, as well as our mates in the long boat .
hence i was obliged to enforce a rigid system of exclusion; and none obtained access to the premises upon whose discretion i could not rely . ''
he became pale, then excessively red; then, dropping his pocket handkerchief, stooped to recover it, when i caught a glimpse of his countenance, while it could be seen by no one else at the table .
in this manner i fancied i could distinguish the precise moment when he fairly disengaged the lid also, that i could determine when he removed it altogether, and when he deposited it upon the lower berth in his room; this latter point i knew, for example, by certain slight taps which the lid made in striking against the wooden edges of the berth, as he endeavored to lay it down very gently there being no room for it on the floor .
i had met, however, with many angles in the wall, and thus i could form no guess at the shape of the vault; for vault i could not help supposing it to be .
the writers seem, in each instance, to be utterly uninformed in respect to astronomy .
i repeat, therefore, that it must have been simply a freak of my own fancy, distempered by good captain hardy 's green tea .
instantly a figure advanced to the threshold that of a young woman about twenty eight years of age slender, or rather slight, and somewhat above the medium height .
but of course this is not the case .
the nerve conveys similar ones to the brain; the brain, also, similar ones to the unparticled matter which permeates it .
he is well acquainted with my ms  ., and i just copied into the middle of the blank sheet the words      ''' un dessein si funeste, s'il n'est digne d'atrée, est digne de thyeste.
it is now, to be sure, growing rather dark but you can examine it at your leisure in the morning .
but, under the real circumstances of the case, if we are to suppose gold the motive of this outrage, we must also imagine the perpetrator so vacillating an idiot as to have abandoned his gold and his motive together .
 ''captain pratt, on the contrary, when he had sailed a thousand miles west of this position, was an hour, and when he had sailed twenty four thousand miles west, was twenty four hours, or one day, behind the time at london .
had checked for nothing until the third day before her death, when she took out in person the sum of francs .
the truth is that the introduction was attended, upon my part, with a degree of anxious embarrassment which operated to prevent any definite impressions of either time or place .
i must look you out a little specimen of each .
in a few moments, however, it is seen that the main body of the water still sweeps in a gentle and extensive curve to the left, the wall following it as before, while a stream of considerable volume, diverging from the principal one, makes its way, with a slight ripple, under the door, and is thus hidden from sight .
in fact, having once established connected and legible characters, i scarcely gave a thought to the mere difficulty of developing their import .
if such had been the case, we know our duty better than to bring him into the presence of a noble of your family . ''
if i felt any emotion at all, it was a kind of chuckling satisfaction at the cleverness i was about to display in extricating myself from this dilemma; and i never, for a moment, looked upon my ultimate safety as a question susceptible of doubt .
i have said already that he had his weak points; but in speaking of these, i must not be understood as referring to his obstinacy: which was one of his strong points   ''assurement ce n' etait pas sa foible . ''
properly introduced, will show not only your knowledge of the language, but your general reading and wit .
    'oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, has the audacity to demand of us, for his twattle, a 'speedy insertion and prompt pay .'
the constructive or combining power, by which ingenuity is usually manifested, and to which the phrenologists i believe erroneously have assigned a separate organ, supposing it a primitive faculty, has been so frequently seen in those whose intellect bordered otherwise upon idiocy, as to have attracted general observation among writers on morals .
this boat shall guide us, with a rapidity which will surprise even ourselves, to him who employed it in the midnight of the fatal sabbath .
the victim must have been absolutely passive at their will .
romantic as all this may appear, i really received a letter from madame lalande the beautiful, the wealthy, the idolized madame lalande .
e   . i. by which again the very classical phrase non est inventus, is supposed to be understood.
this latter reflection urged the man still to follow the fugitive .
the two scoundrels were thus  ''in at the death, '' and through a half open window of the back parlor of the inn, amused themselves in grinning at the denouement of the drama .
in dying, do they not rather waste away mournfully, rendering unto god, little by little, their existence, as these trees render up shadow after shadow, exhausting their substance unto dissolution?
those eyes those large, those shining, those divine orbs they became to me twin stars of leda, and i to them devoutest of astrologers .
my daughter  's daughter, mademoiselle voissart, she marry von monsieur croissart, and den again, my daughter's grande daughter, mademoiselle croissart, she marry von monsieur froissart; and i suppose you say dat dat is not von ver respectaable name .
 ''yours sincerely,  ''stubbs . ''
the duck of vaucanson was still more remarkable .
the winds of the firmament breathed but one sound within my ears, and the ripples upon the sea murmured evermore morella .
but first, another draught of the medoc . ''
around in every direction it was still as black as pitch, but nearly overhead there burst out, all at once, a circular rift of clear sky as clear as i ever saw and of a deep bright blue and through it there blazed forth the full moon with a lustre that i never before knew her to wear .
could not make out the words of the shrill voice .
sensations are the great things after all .
william godwin, however, says in his  ''mandeville, '' that  ''invisible things are the only realities, '' and this, all will allow, is a case in point .
long long long many minutes, many hours, many days, have i heard it yet i dared not oh, pity me, miserable wretch that i am i dared not i dared not speak we have put her living in the tomb said i not that my senses were acute?
in the end, it is said, the island became, nine tenths of it, church .
they have no variation of principle in their investigations; at best, when urged by some unusual emergency by some extraordinary reward they extend or exaggerate their old modes of practice, without touching their principles .
in conclusion: i am done forever with billets doux and am never to be met without spectacles .
this behavior, i saw plainly, was not very pleasing to monsieur maillard; but that gentleman said nothing, and the conversation was resumed by a very lean little man in a big wig .
the        'hum drum,' the 'rowdy dow,' and the 'goosetherumfoodle' excel, we admit, in braggadocio, but, in all other points, give us the 'lollipop .
if it flag for an instant, an oversight is committed resulting in injury or defeat .
she is accosted, and invited to enter, by a polite and voluble individual at the door .
while he considers what course to pursue, however, he becomes aware of a gentle movement in the fairy bark .
with a sigh, he declines to do so .
so at least swore, with a round oath, professor rub a dub, and so finally thought the illustrious von underduk, as he took the arm of his brother in science, and without saying a word, began to make the best of his way home to deliberate upon the measures to be adopted .
but it may be said that this man lives, and is deterred from making himself known, through dread of being charged with the murder .
this did not occur, however, until the lapse of a fortnight .
i will read, and you shall listen; and so we will pass away this terrible night together . ''
 ''in supposing it to be a bug of real gold . ''
thus circumstanced, we shall find that we float without difficulty and without exertion .
upon reviving he spoke incoherently for some time .
i shall cork the ms  . up in a bottle, however, and throw it into the sea.
but in no regard was he more peculiar than in his personal appearance .
man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will . ''
in the year , a case of living inhumation happened in france, attended with circumstances which go far to warrant the assertion that truth is, indeed, stranger than fiction .
as the sleep waker pronounced these latter words, in a feeble tone, i observed on his countenance a singular expression, which somewhat alarmed me, and induced me to awake him at once .
we have it upon good authority, that mr         . fatquack received no less than sixty two cents and a half for his late domestic nouvelette, the         'dish clout.'  ''the contributors to the number before us are mr. crab, the eminent editor, snob, mumblethumb, fatquack, and others; but, after the inimitable compositions of the editor himself, we prefer a diamond like effusion from the pen of a rising poet who writes over the signature 'snob' a nom de guerre which we predict will one day extinguish the radiance of 'boz.' 'snob,' we learn, is a mr. thingum bob, esq., sole heir of a wealthy merchant of this city, thomas bob, esq., and a near relative of the distinguished mr. thingum.
but this hesitation was only momentary .
the same fault is to be found in the  ''attempt c  ., '' as we originally saw it.
 ''i zay, '' said he,  ''you mos pe dronk as de pig, vor zit dare and not zee me zit ere; and i zay, doo, you mos pe pigger vool as de goose, vor to dispelief vat iz print in de print .
as no resistance, beyond whooping and yelling and cock a doodling, was offered to the encroachments of the party without, the ten windows were very speedily, and almost simultaneously, broken in .
thus it was that, by a master stroke of genius, i at length consummated my triumphs by    ''putting money in my purse, '' and thus may be said really and fairly to have commenced that brilliant and eventful career which rendered me illustrious, and which now enables me to say, with chateaubriand,  ''i have made history ''  ''i'ai fait l'histoire . ''
i am not sure from what point of view the writer in question surveyed it, nor at what time; but it could neither have been from the summit of helseggen, nor during a storm .
at sundown, the gale had sensibly diminished in violence, and as the sea went down with it, we still entertained faint hopes of saving ourselves in the boats .
his vesture was dabbled in blood and his broad brow, with all the features of the face, was besprinkled with the scarlet horror .
if this i saw not so rowena .
the screams and struggles of the old lady during which the hair was torn from her head had the effect of changing the probably pacific purposes of the ourang outang into those of wrath .
a party, of which he formed one, landed at borneo, and passed into the interior on an excursion of pleasure .
 ''precisely the one went east and the other went west, you jade, and they both have gone quite round the world .
it executed, says brewster, all the natural movements and gestures, it ate and drank with avidity, performed all the quick motions of the head and throat which are peculiar to the duck, and like it muddled the water which it drank with its bill .
 ''no, nothing peculiar, '' i said;  ''nothing more, at least, than we both saw stated in the paper . ''
we presume that the present absence is a freak of the same nature, and that, at the expiration of a week, or perhaps of a month, we shall have her among us again . ''
but again why need this impediment have been produced?
in the meantime the balloon arose like a lark, and, soaring far away above the city, at length drifted quietly behind a cloud similar to that from which it had so oddly emerged, and was thus lost forever to the wondering eyes of the good citizens of rotterdam .
are there other rudimental thinking beings than man?
i soon, however, grew accustomed to it, and my uneasiness wore off .
i was too much exhausted to speak, so i merely regarded him with an imploring air .
on the upper stone lay a white petticoat; on the second a silk scarf .
all she did, however, was to stand up in a corner, by the fireplace, and sing out incessantly at the top of her voice,  ''cock a doodle de dooooooh '' and now came the climax the catastrophe of the drama .
i concealed nothing felt that i had a right to conceal nothing from her confiding affection .
the fireplaces are large and deep, with fierce crooked looking fire dogs .
from the car below you know the prospect is not so comprehensive you can see little vertically .
but it is now made known that, at the very period, or about the very period, in which it is supposed that the girl was assassinated, an outrage similar in nature to that endured by the deceased, although less in extent, was perpetuated, by a gang of young ruffians, upon the person of a second young female .
spoke quick and unevenly .
 ''i will tell you in a few words; but, before i begin, let me caution you that this is an affair demanding the greatest secrecy, and that i should most probably lose the position i now hold, were it known that i confided it to any one . ''
down, down, down it came, closer and yet closer .
yet let me not be misapprehended .
the cold is merely nothing .
when i thought of these expressions, on the part of my friend, i confess that i felt indescribably puzzled .
now about our maisons de sante, it is clear that some ignoramus has misled you .
fronting the entrance, and elevated a little above his companions, sat a personage who appeared to be the president of the table .
the weather was warm, and he was buried with indecent haste in one of the public cemeteries .
he is calm  ''calm as a smile from lady bury . ''
but my revenge was sure, sudden, and complete .
it was dark all dark .
abased, humbled to the dust as i then was, it is probable that i should have resented this galling language by immediate personal violence, had not my whole attention been at the moment arrested by a fact of the most startling character .
the populace encored .
the countenance was a surpassingly beautiful one those large luminous eyes that proud grecian nose those dark luxuriant curls  ''ah '' said i, exultingly to myself,  ''this is indeed the speaking image of my beloved '' i turned the reverse, and discovered the words  ''eugenie lalande aged twenty seven years and seven months . ''
for myself, however, i was mentally discussing certain topics which had formed matter for conversation between us at an earlier period of the evening; i mean the affair of the rue morgue, and the mystery attending the murder of marie rogêt .
in respect to the grass having   'grown around and over some of them,' it is obvious that the fact could only have been ascertained from the words, and thus from the recollections, of two small boys; for these boys removed the articles and took them home before they had been seen by a third party .
ah yes upon the whole i think you had better not be too severe with the poor fellow don  't flog him, jupiter he can't very well stand it but can you form no idea of what has occasioned this illness, or rather this change of conduct?
you yourself sickened, and passed into the grave; and thither your constant una speedily followed you .
the police are at fault they have failed to procure the slightest clew .
being little or nothing better than a huge foolscap turned upside down .
in kate, however, i had a firm friend, and i knew it .
monsieur le blanc was not unaware of the advantages to be derived from the attendance of the fair marie in his perfumery; and his liberal proposals were accepted eagerly by the girl, although with somewhat more of hesitation by madame .
since the original publication of hans pfaall, i find that mr  . green, of nassau balloon notoriety, and other late aeronauts, deny the assertions of humboldt, in this respect, and speak of a decreasing inconvenience, precisely in accordance with the theory here urged in a mere spirit of banter.
touching the derivation of the name vondervotteimittiss, i confess myself, with sorrow, equally at fault .
very suddenly, and by some inconceivable impulse, i became intensely imbued with personal interest in what was going on .
it is through the spirit of this principle, if not precisely through its letter, that modern science has resolved to calculate upon the unforeseen .
in the contemplation of the heavenly bodies it struck me forcibly that i could not distinguish a star with nearly as much precision, when i gazed on it with earnest, direct and undeviating attention, as when i suffered my eye only to glance in its vicinity alone .
by these means i got to be well known as a man to be trusted; and this is one half the battle, let me tell you, in trade .
the device is that of a single individual; and this brings us to the fact that   'between the thicket and the river, the rails of the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore evident traces of some heavy burden having been dragged along it' but would a number of men have put themselves to the superfluous trouble of taking down a fence, for the purpose of dragging through it a corpse which they might have lifted over any fence in an instant?
indeed, i cannot help admiring the animal for the excellent use he is making of his feet . ''
i removed the bed and examined the corpse .
he is alone with the ghost of the departed .
what prompted me then to disturb the memory of the buried dead?
 ''sit down, my friend, '' said dupin .
of all the women whom i have ever known, she, the outwardly calm, the ever placid ligeia, was the most violently a prey to the tumultuous vultures of stern passion .
the atmosphere was intolerably close .
 ''i arose, '' continued bedloe, regarding the doctor with an air of profound astonishment  ''i arose, as you say, and descended into the city .
you are the only one we can trust .
by the following fact, some color was given to the suspicion thus thrown upon beauvais .
a singular alteration took place in regard to the direction of the balloon, and although fully anticipated, afforded me the most unequivocal delight .
in attempting ourselves an explanation of the automaton, we will, in the first place, endeavor to show how its operations are effected, and afterwards describe, as briefly as possible, the nature of the observations from which we have deduced our result .
his third was the contempt of ambition .
there were times, indeed, when i thought his unceasingly agitated mind was laboring with some oppressive secret, to divulge which he struggled for the necessary courage .
everybody knows, in a general way, that the finest place in the world is or, alas, was the dutch borough of vondervotteimittiss .
the scenery which presented itself on all sides, although scarcely entitled to be called grand, had about it an indescribable and to me a delicious aspect of dreary desolation .
now this shape was peculiar; and no sooner had i seen it, than i took credit to myself for the accuracy of my guessing .
i have thought proper to premise thus much, lest the incredible tale i have to tell should be considered rather the raving of a crude imagination, than the positive experience of a mind to which the reveries of fancy have been a dead letter and a nullity .
one night as i sat, half stupified, in a den of more than infamy, my attention was suddenly drawn to some black object, reposing upon the head of one of the immense hogsheads of gin, or of rum, which constituted the chief furniture of the apartment .
  ''the moon's actual distance from the earth was the first thing to be attended to .
he is, perhaps, the most really energetic human being now alive but that is only when nobody sees him .
dr           . moneypenny says that s. stands for stale, and that d. u. k. spells duck, but it don  't, that s. d. u. k. stands for stale duck and not for lord brougham's society but then dr. moneypenny is such a queer man that i am never sure when he is telling me the truth.
the words  ''gem '' and  ''bijou, '' however, used in reference to my composition, struck me as being, in some degree, feeble, and seemed to me to be deficient in force .
pratol on this very day, last year, to pay my parting respects . ''
but i cannot possibly comprehend the particulars of this frightful mystery .
that very evening i fell upon my knees at the feet of my father .
there are six lights as we have said before in all .
this challenge being accepted, a small table is prepared for the antagonist, and placed close by the rope, but on the spectators ' side of it, and so situated as not to prevent the company from obtaining a full view of the automaton .
the whole company at once started to their feet, and, with the exception of myself and ritzner, took their departure .
soon afterwards i bade him farewell .
the  ''goosetherumfoodle '' deeply  ''regretted this very natural accident, '' and promised, moreover, an insertion of the genuine  ''hey diddle diddle '' in the very next number of the magazine .
there are the stately avenues and retirements of versailles; italian terraces; and a various mixed old english style, which bears some relation to the domestic gothic or english elizabethan architecture .
i resolved to be more cautious, more reserved .
by the aid of these we then busied our souls in dreams reading, writing, or conversing, until warned by the clock of the advent of the true darkness .
thus, with me, yesterday was sunday thus, with you, to day is sunday and thus, with pratt, to morrow will be sunday .
a chess player, for example, does the one without effort at the other .
there was a rope about the animal 's neck .
you do not question me properly .
our vessel was a beautiful ship of about four hundred tons, copper fastened, and built at bombay of malabar teak .
the words  ''strange ''  ''singular '' and other similar expressions, excited my curiosity .
a wild luxuriance of foliage, utterly unknown before, burst out upon every vegetable thing .
a middle aged gentleman arrives in town from parts unknown .
i began to get uneasy, and worked away with all my might, for i verily believe the idiots supposed that i had entered into a compact with the devil, and that, in short, what i was now doing was nothing better than it should be .
i mean moissart and voissart; and for de matter of dat, i mean croissart and froisart, too, if i only tink proper to mean it .
zaffre, digested in aqua regia, and diluted with four times its weight of water, is sometimes employed; a green tint results .
  ''by ten o'clock i found that i had very little to occupy my immediate attention .
the person of the stranger let me call him by this title, who to all the world was still a stranger the person of the stranger is one of these subjects .
as to the how of the surrender, no language can be more explicit .
his chief delight, however, was found in the perusal of an exceedingly rare and curious book in quarto gothic the manual of a forgotten church the vigiliae mortuorum secundum chorum ecclesiae maguntinae .
this wall had gates of iron .
for our own purpose, therefore, if not for the purpose of justice, it is indispensable that our first step should be the determination of the identity of the corpse with the marie rogêt who is missing .
a spectator would have thought of francis and charles .
they consider only their own ideas of ingenuity; and, in searching for anything hidden, advert only to the modes in which they would have hidden it .
i staggered onward for some time, when i stumbled and fell .
mr  .  's article concludes with the following words.
this time, however, they seemed to proceed from persons rapidly approaching .
the simple character of those inductions by which he had disentangled the mystery never having been explained even to the prefect, or to any other individual than myself, of course it is not surprising that the affair was regarded as little less than miraculous, or that the chevalier 's analytical abilities acquired for him the credit of intuition .
we all know what is meant by  ''damning with faint praise, '' and, on the other hand, who could fail seeing through the covert purpose of the  ''daddy '' that of glorifying with feeble abuse?
his principal topics were those of the day, and nothing that fell from him led me to suspect his scientific attainments .
she was dressed, however, in exquisite taste and then i had no doubt that she had captivated my friend 's heart by the more enduring graces of the intellect and soul .
schlumberger was suddenly taken ill, and during his illness there was no exhibition of the chess player .
the town council are all very little, round, oily, intelligent men, with big saucer eyes and fat double chins, and have their coats much longer and their shoe buckles much bigger than the ordinary inhabitants of vondervotteimittiss .
at this point, after a series of sweeps, it turned off at right angles and pursued a generally southern direction meandering as it went until it became lost in a small lake of irregular figure although roughly oval, that lay gleaming near the lower extremity of the vale .
flowers, indeed, of gorgeous colours and delicate odour formed the sole mere decoration of the apartment .
 ''let us now transport ourselves, in fancy, to this chamber .
their roots a hideous sight were clotted with fragments of the flesh of the scalp sure token of the prodigious power which had been exerted in uprooting perhaps half a million of hairs at a time .
we could not have made head against the strong wind of yesterday; but, by ascending, we might have got out of its influence, if requisite .
he rode over to s , immediately after breakfast, and left word that he would not be in town again for a week . ''
many a night, just at midnight, when all the world slept, it has welled up from my own bosom, deepening, with its dreadful echo, the terrors that distracted me .
now, this is precisely what ought to be the case, if we suppose a resistance experienced from the comet from an extremely rare ethereal medium pervading the regions of its orbit .
withdrawing the key i stepped back from the recess .
the evident motion of our system in the heavens was strange to say referred to an orbit about a prodigious star in the centre of the galaxy .
the extra state room, originally engaged for this girl during her mistress ' life, was now merely retained .
no doubt i now grew very pale; but i talked more fluently, and with a heightened voice .
for a few minutes i remained wrapped in the profoundest meditation .
he puts out his candle .
there was the poodle .
 ''yes, i perceive; and now there is only one point which puzzles me .
at her right hand sat a diminutive young lady whom she appeared to patronise .
this latter kind of silk was designated as silk buckingham, on account of its superior durability, and was usually prepared for use by being varnished with a solution of gum caoutchouc a substance which in some respects must have resembled the gutta percha now in common use .
his grace 's brain reeled as he glanced upward .
but this difficulty might be easily obviated, either by elevating the seats of the company, or by turning the end of the box towards them during the game .
like a true frenchwoman as she was she had obeyed the frank dictates of her reason the generous impulses of her nature despising the conventional pruderies of the world .
for its recovery, she offers some forty or fifty dollars reward giving, in her advertisement, a very minute description of the gem, and of its settings, and declaring that, on its restoration at no  . so and so, in such and such avenue, the reward would be paid instanter, without a single question being asked.
did you ever behold streets so insufferably narrow, or houses so miraculously tall?
  ''you scoundrel, '' said legrand, hissing out the syllables from between his clenched teeth  ''you infernal black villain speak, i tell you answer me this instant, without prevarication which which is your left eye? ''  ''oh, my golly, massa will aint dis here my lef eye for sartain? '' roared the terrified jupiter, placing his hand upon his right organ of vision, and holding it there with a desperate pertinacity, as if in immediate dread of his master's attempt at a gouge .
alas, it is too late we stand upon the brink of a precipice .
the whole company, indeed, seemed now deeply to feel that in the costume and bearing of the stranger neither wit nor propriety existed .
it was only a minute 's work, and then came a sixpence .
at the soirée of the lovely widow, mrs  . kathleen o 'trump, i was confident that i should meet with no similar disappointment.
it might have been midnight, or perhaps earlier, or later, for i had taken no note of time, when a sob, low, gentle, but very distinct, startled me from my revery .
 ''tousand teufel '' growled the elector of bluddennuff .
he 'll take the hint and be off, you may depend upon it . ''
while i was pondering upon what was best to be done, jupiter 's voice was again heard .
admitting the rule, and this le moniteur does not deny, insisting merely upon its exceptions, the argument of l   'etoile is suffered to remain in full force; for this argument does not pretend to involve more than a question of the probability of the body having risen to the surface in less than three days; and this probability will be in favor of l'etoile's position until the instances so childishly adduced shall be sufficient in number to establish an antagonistical rule .
as it is well known that the     'wise men' came 'from the east,' and as mr     . touch and go bullet head came from the east, it follows that mr. bullet head was a wise man; and if collateral proof of the matter be needed, here we have it mr. b. was an editor.
and then, hour after hour, would i linger by her side, and dwell upon the music of her voice, until at length its melody was tainted with terror, and there fell a shadow upon my soul, and i grew pale, and shuddered inwardly at those too unearthly tones .
in this rack, which had three or four compartments, were five or six visiting cards and a solitary letter .
every succeeding wave of thought overwhelmed me with new terror, for, alas i well, too well understood that to think, in my situation, was to be lost .
chantilly was a quondam cobbler of the rue st  . denis, who, becoming stage mad, had attempted the rôle of xerxes, in crébillon 's tragedy so called, and been notoriously pasquinaded for his pains.
let it suffice to say, that at the period of which i speak, there existed, in the interior of hungary, a settled although hidden belief in the doctrines of the metempsychosis .
in the name of all the vrows and devils in rotterdam, what could it possibly portend?
although completely water logged, yet, as her masts had gone by the board, she rose, after a minute, heavily from the sea, and, staggering awhile beneath the immense pressure of the tempest, finally righted .
here was art undoubtedly that did not surprise me all roads, in the ordinary sense, are works of art; nor can i say that there was much to wonder at in the mere excess of art manifested; all that seemed to have been done, might have been done here with such natural  ''capabilities '' as they have it in the books on landscape gardening with very little labor and expense .
it was not until the opening of the vault to decide the controversy, that the appearance of mr  . windenough and myself proved both parties to have been decidedly in the wrong.
i saw our exact position in an instant .
but is it not getting late?
the idea of detection never once entered my brain .
the most notorious ill fortune must in the end yield to the untiring courage of philosophy as the most stubborn city to the ceaseless vigilance of an enemy .
what, then, must have been my amazement when i heard the frenchman speak what he had just spoken, and when i could not help acknowledging that he had spoken the truth .
after many years spent in foreign travel, i sailed in the year , from the port of batavia, in the rich and populous island of java, on a voyage to the archipelago of the sunda islands .
had there been divisions, the task would have been comparatively easy .
the last nine hours have been unquestionably the most exciting of my life .
 ''its susceptibility of being produced? '' said i  .  ''that is to say, of being destroyed, '' said dupin.
let us endeavor to ascertain, by repeated questionings of madame deluc and her boys, as well as of the omnibus driver, valence, something more of the personal appearance and bearing of the   'man of dark complexion  .' queries, skilfully directed, will not fail to elicit, from some of these parties, information on this particular point or upon others information which the parties themselves may not even be aware of possessing.
clumps of wild flowers grew everywhere, luxuriantly, in the interspaces .
he now grew more composed in his demeanor; but his original air of enthusiasm had quite disappeared .
i kept quite still and said nothing .
a draught of this medoc will defend us from the damps . ''
to do do small man and bad pay        ....... total sic the item chiefly disputed in this bill was the very moderate charge of two pennies for the dickey.
in his explanation of this phraseology, mr  . ellison did much toward solving what has always seemed to me an enigma: i mean the fact which none but the ignorant dispute that no such combination of scenery exists in nature as the painter of genius may produce.
the paste thus arising was called papyrus in its primary state, and went through a variety of processes until it finally became  ''silk . ''
not even the outlines of continents and seas could now be traced upon the earth with anything approaching distinctness .
cut loose, then, in high spirits, and rose gently but steadily, with a light breeze at north, which bore us in the direction of the british channel .
wealth was the general solution but this i knew to be no solution at all; for wyatt had told me that she neither brought him a dollar nor had any expectations from any source whatever .
 ''you have a quarrel on hand, i see, '' said i,  ''with some of the algebraists of paris; but proceed . ''
although this event failed not of a vivid effect upon my disordered imagination, yet was it evanescent as vivid .
one night, about the close of my fifth year at the school, and immediately after the altercation just mentioned, finding every one wrapped in sleep, i arose from bed, and, lamp in hand, stole through a wilderness of narrow passages from my own bedroom to that of my rival .
when, i say, all this became evident to my appalled senses, when i could no longer hide it from my soul, nor throw it off from those perceptions which trembled to receive it, is it to be wondered at that suspicions, of a nature fearful and exciting, crept in upon my spirit, or that my thoughts fell back aghast upon the wild tales and thrilling theories of the entombed morella?
they retreated, at first, before us .
nothing else of an extraordinary nature occurred during the day .
the very moderate density of these bodies had been well established .
the chairs and table were  ''to match, '' but the forms of all had evidently been designed by the same brain which planned  ''the grounds; '' it is impossible to conceive anything more graceful .
i found that we were to have a great many passengers, including a more than usual number of ladies .
after this i call to mind flatness and dampness; and then all is madness the madness of a memory which busies itself among forbidden things .
on the hearth were two or three long and thick tresses of grey human hair, also dabbled in blood, and seeming to have been pulled out by the roots .
 ''astonishingly, '' said the second;  ''still quite a brilliant air, but art will do wonders .
what shall we think of an engine of wood and metal which can not only compute astronomical and navigation tables to any given extent, but render the exactitude of its operations mathematically certain through its power of correcting its possible errors?
 ''treason '' said the little man with the gout .
but what mainly occasioned a righteous indignation was, that the scoundrelly popinjay, while he cut a fandango here, and a whirligig there, did not seem to have the remotest idea in the world of such a thing as keeping time in his steps .
in fact, he would have given ten thousand pounds from his own pocket kate 's plum was her own if he could have invented any thing like an excuse for complying with our very natural wishes .
what the  ''daddy '' chose to say of the fly, however, was no business of mine .
 ''it may appear invidious in me, miss psyche zenobia, to refer you to any article, or set of articles, in the way of model or study, yet perhaps i may as well call your attention to a few cases .
there will be frequent hours in which i shall need, too, the sympathy of the poetic in what i have done .
 ''who dares? '' he demanded hoarsely of the courtiers who stood near him  ''who dares insult us with this blasphemous mockery?
the apartments were so irregularly disposed that the vision embraced but little more than one at a time .
 ''smith? '' said mrs  . p., as we twirled about together in a pas de zephyr,  ''smith?
it is long since i first trod the deck of this terrible ship, and the rays of my destiny are, i think, gathering to a focus .
quizzed the whole party through an opera glass, till i saw the fat lady blush and whisper to g  . went round, then, into the box, and put my nose within reach of his hand.
i was convinced of this for two reasons because my birds always flew in a straight line; and because whenever we attempted to rest, we were carried insensibly around the globe of the earth .
suddenly, as the seamen stumbled against the entrance of a tall and ghastly looking building, a yell more than usually shrill from the throat of the excited legs, was replied to from within, in a rapid succession of wild, laughter like, and fiendish shrieks .
there was the president of the fum fudge university .
it is quite a common thing to be thus annoyed with the ringing in our ears, or rather in our memories, of the burthen of some ordinary song, or some unimpressive snatches from an opera .
that   's me '' here i screamed at the top of my voice  ''that's me e e i am napoleon bonaparte froissart and if i havn't married my great, great, grandmother, i wish i may be everlastingly confounded '' madame eugenie lalande, quasi simpson formerly moissart was, in sober fact, my great, great, grandmother .
the propelling principle, or power, was here, also, applied to interrupted surfaces, or vanes, put in revolution .
my appearance is commanding .
with this object in view i had prepared a very strong perfectly air tight, but flexible gum elastic bag .
upon sight of it, the ourang outang sprang at once through the door of the chamber, down the stairs, and thence, through a window, unfortunately open, into the street .
and i called the mighty ruler of the universe to witness the pious solemnity of my vow .
in this disposition, the dupe who cuts, as customary, at the length of the pack, will invariably find that he cuts his antagonist an honor; while the gambler, cutting at the breadth, will, as certainly, cut nothing for his victim which may count in the records of the game .
upon coming to my senses, for the fall had very thoroughly stunned me, i found it about four o 'clock in the morning .
an instantaneous and dreadful sickness seized me .
with a well feigned show of reluctance, and not until after my repeated refusal had seduced him into some angry words which gave a color of pique to my compliance, did i finally comply .
the other crucible had some liquid in it, which, as the officers entered, seemed to be furiously dissipating in vapor .
we had now been about ten minutes upon the top of helseggen, to which we had ascended from the interior of lofoden, so that we had caught no glimpse of the sea until it had burst upon us from the summit .
i became perfectly certain of this; for i recollected turning up first one side and then the other, in search of the cleanest spot .
do you see the stage box?
not even here is knowledge thing of intuition .
and their astonishment may be well conceived, when the next day it became known, all over bremen, that the   'lot of brass' which they had carted so contemptuously to the police office, without putting themselves to the trouble of pocketing the smallest scrap, was not only gold real gold but gold far finer than any employed in coinage gold, in fact, absolutely pure, virgin, without the slightest appreciable alloy .
now, if we imagine this sense of the almighty design to be harmonized in a measurable degree, if we suppose a landscape whose combined strangeness, vastness, definitiveness, and magnificence, shall inspire the idea of culture, or care, or superintendence, on the part of intelligences superior yet akin to humanity then the sentiment of interest is preserved, while the art is made to assume the air of an intermediate or secondary nature a nature which is not god, nor an emanation of god, but which still is nature, in the sense that it is the handiwork of the angels that hover between man and god . ''
the ship was no longer visible, having drifted away, apparently to the eastward .
 ''perhaps the mystery is a little too plain, '' said dupin .
indeed, the labor now required by the condenser had increased to a most oppressive degree, and allowed me scarcely any respite from exertion .
i had to rest several times before i could accomplish this manoeuvre, but it was at length accomplished .
then taking also from the drawer the automaton 's set of chess men, he arranges them upon the chessboard before the figure .
what i then saw confounded and amazed me .
a great point was to set each lunatic to guard the actions of all the others .
those most remote from the spectators are the longest those in the middle are about two inches shorter and those nearest the company about two inches shorter still and the candles on one side differ in height from the candles respectively opposite on the other, by a ratio different from two inches that is to say, the longest candle on one side is about three inches shorter than the longest candle on the other, and so on .
i knew him as a courtier, too, and as a bold intriguant .
 ''you kept your eyes upon the ground glancing, with a petulant expression, at the holes and ruts in the pavement, so that i saw you were still thinking of the stones, until we reached the little alley called lamartine, which has been paved, by way of experiment, with the overlapping and riveted blocks .
an observation of yours about its great weight suggested the latter idea . ''
i found it impossible to comprehend him either in his moral or his physical relations .
the impression she produced upon the company seemed electrical but the effect upon myself was something even more .
they could not perceive, so they said, what good was likely to result from their getting wet to the skin, merely to take a part in such horrible incantations .
at this moment we heard a step upon the stairs .
we were then to call at the house of a clergyman who would be in waiting; there be married, drop talbot, and proceed on a short tour to the east, leaving the fashionable world at home to make whatever comments upon the matter it thought best .
it afforded me more real delight than all the mere worldly advantages accruing from my sin .
i pondered upon their conformation .
they have made a latin hymn upon the valor of the king, and are singing it as they go: mille, mille, mille, mille, mille, mille, decollavimus, unus homo mille, mille, mille, mille, decollavimus mille, mille, mille, vivat qui mille mille occidit tantum vini habet nemo quantum sanguinis effudit which may be thus paraphrased: a thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand, we, with one warrior, have slain a thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand .
to the left the character of the scene is softer and more obviously artificial .
no such paradises are to be found in reality as have glowed on the canvas of claude .
xh, jxhn, jxhn, jxhn, if yxu dxn   't gx yxu're nx hxmx nx yxu're xnly a fxwl, an xwl; a cxw, a sxw; a dxll, a pxll; a pxxr xld gxxd fxr nxthing tx nxbxdy, lxg, dxg, hxg, xr frxg, cxme xut xf a cxncxrd bxg .
i now felt a burning sense of the impropriety i had committed, and expected nothing less than instant exposure; while a vision of pistols upon the morrow floated rapidly and uncomfortably through my brain .
for the rest, he laughed with his arms and legs, and his politics were stubborn and easily understood .
the old lady was childish .
my knees tottered beneath me my teeth chattered my hair started up on end .
in looking about, i discovered the interesting girl to whom monsieur maillard had presented me in the little parlor; but my surprise was great to see her wearing a hoop and farthingale, with high heeled shoes, and a dirty cap of brussels lace, so much too large for her that it gave her face a ridiculously diminutive expression .
and then there stole into my fancy, like a rich musical note, the thought of what sweet rest there must be in the grave .
je lui ai cette obligation entre les autres, de m    ' auoir non seulement mis en main cc livre en anglois, mais encore le manuscrit du sieur thomas d'anan, gentilhomme eccossois, recommandable pour sa vertu, sur la version duquel j' advoue que j' ay tiré le plan de la mienne . ''
hereupon mr  . crab desired me to use up the editor of the  ''gad fly '' forthwith, in the fiercest style within the scope of my ability, and as a specimen of my powers.
antiochus epiphanes is very generally looked upon as the gog of the prophet ezekiel .
he was singularly tall and thin .
and yet how unintelligible is this in all other matters we are justly instructed to regard nature as supreme .
the light, almost slender symmetry of his figure, promised more of that ready activity which he evinced at the bridge of sighs, than of that herculean strength which he has been known to wield without an effort, upon occasions of more dangerous emergency .
i was returning home from the piazetta, by way of the grand canal .
its length was thirteen feet six inches height, six feet eight inches .
he hesitated but for an instant; then, with a slight sigh, drew in silence, and put himself upon his defence .
she must have thought of these things, i say .
the moodiness of my usual temper increased to hatred of all things and of all mankind; while, from the sudden, frequent, and ungovernable outbursts of a fury to which i now blindly abandoned myself, my uncomplaining wife, alas was the most usual and the most patient of sufferers .
i looked dizzily, and beheld a wide expanse of ocean, whose waters wore so inky a hue as to bring at once to my mind the nubian geographer 's account of the mare tenebrarum .
the flame of a candle burned upon the poop without the least perceptible motion, and a long hair, held between the finger and thumb, hung without the possibility of detecting a vibration .
 ''put your right hand into your left hand preeches pocket, ten, in token ov your vull zubmizzion unto te angel ov te odd . ''
i am that is to say i was a great man; but i am neither the author of junius nor the man in the mask; for my name, i believe, is robert jones, and i was born somewhere in the city of fum fudge .
my own name, though, as i say, became simpson, by act of legislature, and with so much repugnance on my part, that, at one period, i actually hesitated about accepting the legacy with the useless and annoying proviso attached .
these repeated insults were not to be endured by an imperious nobility .
 ''you are mistaken, my lord; the horse, as i think we mentioned, is not from the stables of the count .
from its nether extremity swung a large cresset .
they upthrew the damp earth .
 ''ha ha ha why, simpson, you have an astonishing tact at making discoveries original ones, i mean . ''
when i had finished, i felt satisfied that all was right .
the ship and all in it are imbued with the spirit of eld .
we had no means of calculating time, nor could we form any guess of our situation .
a rough gash was made, and a wire hastily brought in contact, when the patient, with a hurried but quite unconvulsive movement, arose from the table, stepped into the middle of the floor, gazed about him uneasily for a few seconds, and then spoke .
it is with a confused recollection that i bring to mind the circumstances of that meeting .
could distinguish some words of the former, which was that of a frenchman .
but it is not to this fact that i now especially advert .
  'the river alpheus passed beneath the sea, and emerged without injury to the purity of its waters .'
hence that positive appetite for system and regularity which has made me the distinguished man of business that i am .
a lamp which had been accidentally left, full of oil, within the tomb, was found empty; it might have been exhausted, however, by evaporation .
i watched it attentively until sunset, when it spread all at once to the eastward and westward, girting in the horizon with a narrow strip of vapor, and looking like a long line of low beach .
ah, word of no meaning behind whose vast latitude of mere sound we intrench our ignorance of so much of the spiritual .
i copy for your amusement the knickerbocker inscription on the marble slab: this corner stone of a monument to the memory of george washington was laid with appropriate ceremonies on the th day of october, the anniversary of the surrender of lord cornwallis to general washington at yorktown a   . d. under the auspices of the washington monument association of the city of new york this, as i give it, is a verbatim translation done by pundit himself, so there can be no mistake about it.
 ''very true; but what are they doing here? ''
 ''the first thing requisite is to get yourself into such a scrape as no one ever got into before .
 ''the island in the distance, '' resumed the old man,  ''is called by the norwegians vurrgh .
no one knew, no one could imagine; no one not even the burgomaster mynheer superbus von underduk had the slightest clew by which to unravel the mystery; so, as nothing more reasonable could be done, every one to a man replaced his pipe carefully in the corner of his mouth, and cocking up his right eye towards the phenomenon, puffed, paused, waddled about, and grunted significantly then waddled back, grunted, paused, and finally puffed again .
the leading article, i must admit, was brilliant not to say severe .
here, however, are moissart, voissart, croissart, and froissart, all in the direct line of descent .
ten o 'clock found me in some fashionable promenade or other place of public amusement .
 ''but, in point of fact, an ascension being made to any given altitude, the ponderable quantity of air surmounted in any farther ascension is by no means in proportion to the additional height ascended as may be plainly seen from what has been stated before, but in a ratio constantly decreasing .
for, in truth, it was at this crisis that taste alone that faculty which, holding a middle position between the pure intellect and the moral sense, could never safely have been disregarded it was now that taste alone could have led us gently back to beauty, to nature, and to life .
and thus, joy suddenly faded into horror, and the most beautiful became the most hideous, as hinnon became ge henna .
in the meantime, as it was very certain that i would be attacked in the fly for my attempt at composing a rival poem on the  ''oil of bob, '' he mr  . crab, would take it upon himself to attend, pointedly, to my private and personal interests.
from that period the ship, being thrown dead off the wind, has continued her terrific course due south, with every rag of canvas packed upon her, from her trucks to her lower studding sail booms, and rolling every moment her top gallant yard arms into the most appalling hell of water which it can enter into the mind of a man to imagine .
he declares that at no period was he altogether insensible that, dully and confusedly, he was aware of everything which happened to him, from the moment in which he was pronounced dead by his physicians, to that in which he fell swooning to the floor of the hospital .
there is no trace or tidings of her at all    ....
the deep, the poignant, the overwhelming mortification, which upon each such failure of his praise worthy endeavors, would suffuse every lineament of his countenance, left not the slightest room for doubt of his sincerity in the bosoms of even his most skeptical companions .
it was a quiet and still afternoon when i strolled forth in the goodly city of edina .
in draughts, on the contrary, where the moves are unique and have but little variation, the probabilities of inadvertence are diminished, and the mere attention being left comparatively unemployed, what advantages are obtained by either party are obtained by superior acumen .
his father, the minister g , died young .
this was done by fellows who had no pocket handkerchief . ''
no man in holland certainly; yet here, under the very noses of the people, or rather at some distance above their noses was the identical thing in question, and composed, i have it on the best authority, of the precise material which no one had ever before known to be used for a similar purpose .
this companion dying, the animal fell into his own exclusive possession .
then you stop and grind; looking as if you meant to stop and grind till doomsday .
thus the happy dandy flos aeris of java bears, it is said, a beautiful flower, which will live when pulled up by the roots .
what, indeed, was my passion for the young girl of the valley in comparison with the fervor, and the delirium, and the spirit lifting ecstasy of adoration with which i poured out my whole soul in tears at the feet of the ethereal ermengarde?
 ''sure nuff, massa; mus look .
the stones that once obstructed the way had been carefully placed not thrown along the sides of the lane, so as to define its boundaries at bottom with a kind of half precise, half negligent, and wholly picturesque definition .
i held the lantern motionless .
on their departure, they took the road to some thick woods in the vicinity .
i ventured a jest or two, and he made a sickening attempt at a smile .
yes he would let him see how much he was mistaken, the puppy he, touch and go bullet head, of frogpondium, would let mr  . john smith perceive that he, bullet head, could indite, if it so pleased him, a whole paragraph aye a whole article in which that contemptible vowel should not once not even once make its appearance.
if you can, in any way, make it convenient, come over with jupiter .
there was bibulus o 'bumper .
you, therefore, did not design the skull, and no one else was present to do it .
 ''dolt '' said the third .
by degrees the idea of cultivation subsided into that of merely pastoral care .
the rest of the shank was in the gimlet hole where it had been broken off .
with one exception, you are the only human being besides myself and my valet, who has been admitted within the mysteries of these imperial precincts, since they have been bedizzened as you see '' i bowed in acknowledgment for the overpowering sense of splendor and perfume, and music, together with the unexpected eccentricity of his address and manner, prevented me from expressing, in words, my appreciation of what i might have construed into a compliment .
she is a year nearer unto death; for i did not fail to see that, as she came into the shade, her shadow fell from her, and was swallowed up in the dark water, making its blackness more black . ''
i stepped boldly and briskly forward .
i noticed that at least two thirds of these guests were ladies; and some of the latter were by no means accoutred in what a parisian would consider good taste at the present day .
what wonder, then, that the lath like tenuity of my acquaintance, and his altitude, which has grown into a proverb, should have met with all due estimation in the eyes of mrs  . lackobreath.
they could picture to their imaginations a mode many modes and a motive many motives; and because it was not impossible that either of these numerous modes and motives could have been the actual one, they have taken it for granted that one of them must .
 ''this, '' said i at length, to the old man  ''this can be nothing else than the great whirlpool of the maelström . ''
i took the entire building, room by room; devoting the nights of a whole week to each .
we, especially, who occupy the mid region of the cluster the very locality near which, at least, must be situated this inconceivable central sun .
i wish to look through it .
 ''read now, '' replied dupin,  ''this passage from cuvier . ''
  'the prince of ts,' therefore, is upon his hinder legs, running for his life .
turning my head gently to one side, i perceived, to my extreme horror, that the huge, glittering, scimetar like minute hand of the clock had, in the course of its hourly revolution, descended upon my neck .
each alteration of the natural scenery may possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we can suppose this picture viewed at large in mass from some point distant from the earth 's surface, although not beyond the limits of its atmosphere .
 ''p    .s. by mr. ainsworth.
i will change my plate, however, and try some of the rabbit . ''
quitting the wall, i resolved to cross the area of the enclosure .
for several days ensuing, her name was unmentioned by either usher or myself: and during this period i was busied in earnest endeavors to alleviate the melancholy of my friend .
upon the whole, no person could be less liable than myself to be led away from the severe precincts of truth by the ignes fatui of superstition .
and vat den? vat de matter now?
i knew myself no longer .
a sufficient analysis will show that pleasure, in all cases, is but the contrast of pain .
i did not fail to observe, also, the form of the parchment .
the confession i am about to make will add another to the already almost innumerable instances of the truth of the position .
but, ere long the heaven of this pure affection became darkened, and gloom, and horror, and grief swept over it in clouds .
thus the pressure of your sweet fingers upon my eyelids, at first only recognised through vision, at length, long after their removal, filled my whole being with a sensual delight immeasurable .
in this sweet tongue, so adapted to passion, i gave loose to the impetuous enthusiasm of my nature, and, with all the eloquence i could command, besought her to consent to an immediate marriage .
but these they do exceedingly well, and intersperse them, with singular ingenuity, wherever they find room for the chisel .
for some minutes after this fancy possessed me, i remained without motion .
this operation being repeated several times, at length filled the chamber with atmosphere proper for all the purposes of respiration .
we mean you no harm whatever .
this done, and the dog having been unmuzzled, we turned in profound silence towards home .
at one period i thought of cutting the corpse into minute fragments, and destroying them by fire .
i now remembered that, in fact, a fruiterer, carrying upon his head a large basket of apples, had nearly thrown me down, by accident, as we passed from the rue c into the thoroughfare where we stood; but what this had to do with chantilly i could not possibly understand .
let us pursue our fancies .
i had been deceived, too, in respect to the shape of the enclosure .
a terrace, with an old moss covered balustrade, calls up at once to the eye, the fair forms that have passed there in other days .
and den he keep a syphon all de time  ''  ''keeps a what, jupiter? ''  ''keeps a syphon wid de figgurs on de slate de queerest figgurs i ebber did see .
 ''true true, '' i replied;  ''and, indeed, i had no intention of alarming you unnecessarily but you should use all proper caution .
diddling, rightly considered, is a compound, of which the ingredients are minuteness, interest, perseverance, ingenuity, audacity, nonchalance, originality, impertinence, and grin .
my parents, in dying, had bequeathed me to him as a rich legacy .
  ''our author's observations on the artificial style of gardening, '' continued mr  . ellison,  ''are less objectionable.
now the direct inference from this is that the machine is not a pure machine .
the mathematics afford no more absolute demonstrations than the sentiments of his art yields the artist .
the police were thoroughly satisfied and prepared to depart .
this is all which is proved, if any thing is .
the spirit of his vows he made no scruple of setting at naught, but the letter was a bond inviolable .
and yet all the morning, and indeed until late in the afternoon, there was a gentle and steady breeze from the south west, while the sun shone brightly, so that the oldest seaman among us could not have foreseen what was to follow .
 ''referring, now, to the beginning of the cryptograph, we find the combination,  .
i mention this circumstance, because i think it probable that hereafter the individual in question may attempt a balloon ascension with the novel gas and material i have spoken of, and i do not wish to deprive him of the honor of a very singular invention .
that von kempelen and his immediate friends will reap a rich harvest, it would be folly to doubt for a moment .
my tenderness of heart was even so conspicuous as to make me the jest of my companions .
we could not perceive its necessity .
from a position fronting my own, he had gradually brought round his chair, so as to sit with his face to the door of the chamber; and thus i could but partially perceive his features, although i saw that his lips trembled as if he were murmuring inaudibly .
after a tiresome harangue in his ordinary style, he took down from his book shelves a number of musty volumes on the subject of the duello, and entertained me for a long time with their contents; reading aloud, and commenting earnestly as he read .
was it not probable that these symptoms would increase indefinitely, or at least until terminated by death itself?
but during the tumult occasioned by this occurrence, the young nobleman himself sat apparently buried in meditation, in a vast and desolate upper apartment of the family palace of metzengerstein .
i say, you shall have kate and her plum when three sundays come together in a week but not till then you young scapegrace not till then, if i die for it .
as it came fully into view thus gradually as i describe it piece by piece, here a tree, there a glimpse of water, and here again the summit of a chimney, i could scarcely help fancying that the whole was one of the ingenious illusions sometimes exhibited under the name of  ''vanishing pictures . ''
i was making money at this business when, in an evil moment, i was induced to merge it in the cur spattering a somewhat analogous, but, by no means, so respectable a profession .
the coat was nearly new .
a piece of one of the unfortunate girl 's petticoats, two feet long and one foot wide, was torn out and tied under her chin around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams .
but now there were twelve strokes to be sounded by the bell of the clock; and thus it happened, perhaps, that more of thought crept, with more of time, into the meditations of the thoughtful among those who revelled .
 ''but your grandiloquence, and your conduct in swinging the beetle how excessively odd i was sure you were mad .
carefully locking the door on the inside, i commenced a vigorous search .
the second object of the cloth is to deaden and render indistinct all sounds occasioned by the movements of the person within  . .
 ''and you have now changed all this and you think for the better? ''  ''decidedly .
he is not, however, as you suppose, dizzy with magnificence, nor drunk with the ecstatic breath of those innumerable censers .
another was a hickory, much larger than the elm, and altogether a much finer tree, although both were exceedingly beautiful: it seemed to have taken charge of the northwestern entrance, springing from a group of rocks in the very jaws of the ravine, and throwing its graceful body, at an angle of nearly forty five degrees, far out into the sunshine of the amphitheatre .
but the tumult without becoming suddenly more violent, with a compulsory exertion he diverted his attention to the glare of ruddy light thrown full by the flaming stables upon the windows of the apartment .
 ''and then, '' said a cadaverous looking personage, near the foot of the table, taking up the thread of the conversation where it had been broken off,  ''and then, among other oddities, we had a patient, once upon a time, who very pertinaciously maintained himself to be a cordova cheese, and went about, with a knife in his hand, soliciting his friends to try a small slice from the middle of his leg . ''
meantime i sank aghast into the chair which she had vacated .
 ''indeed; '' repeated the vassal .
the shrill voice was very loud louder than the gruff one .
they are encrusted with nitre . ''
there were, however, many particulars inducing me to believe that my average rate of travelling might possibly very much exceed that of thirty miles per hour, and, as these considerations did not fail to make a deep impression upon my mind, i will mention them more fully hereafter .
 ''i forget your arms . ''
i caught it from fatquack whizz fizz and i am giving you a specimen of it now .
 ''and then, '' said some other one of the party,  ''then there was bouffon le grand another extraordinary personage in his way .
and as she breathed her last sighs, there came mingled with them a low murmur from her lips .
but in regard to the shrill voice, the peculiarity is not that they disagreed but that, while an italian, an englishman, a spaniard, a hollander, and a frenchman attempted to describe it, each one spoke of it as that of a foreigner .
his body was a wine pipe, or a rum puncheon, or something of that character, and had a truly falstaffian air .
i could not see his face, but had an opportunity of observing his general appearance .
i again plunged into excess, and soon drowned in wine all memory of the deed .
i found it a matter of exceeding difficulty to squeeze myself in .
you behold around you, it is true, a medley of architectural embellishments .
the legs were at full length; the arms were nearly so, and reposed on the bed at a moderate distance from the loin .
the new gas is doing wonders, in conjunction with the new improvement with gutta percha .
in my case, the primary object was invariably frivolous, although assuming, through the medium of my distempered vision, a refracted and unreal importance .
in the third volume of the  ''american quarterly review '' will be found quite an elaborate criticism upon a certain  ''journey '' of the kind in question a criticism in which it is difficult to say whether the critic most exposes the stupidity of the book, or his own absurd ignorance of astronomy .
it is to the absence of idiosyncratic organs, therefore, that we must attribute the nearly unlimited perception of the ultimate life .
and i lay close within shelter of the lilies, and observed the actions of the man .
not that the matter might not have been as inferred, but that there was no ground for the inference: was there not much for another?
the thing done, however; the wonder accomplished; and the capacity for apprehension becomes universal .
         ''we say, 'most intelligible' 'oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, will be kind enough to tell us, perhaps, how 'hail' can be 'holy light' we always regarded it as frozen rain .
it seemed to lead up, up like a natural causeway, into the recesses of unexplored mountains and forests .
having become satisfied of his identity, he took a bird 's eye view of his whereabouts .
how had i deserved to be so cursed with the removal of my beloved in the hour of her making them?
i always called at the big houses to deliver the letters, and receive the postage .
during the lady 's absence from home, a day or two afterwards, a ring is heard at the door of no  . so and so, in such and such avenue; a servant appears; the lady of the house is asked for and is declared to be out, at which astounding information, the visitor expresses the most poignant regret.
while i gazed directly upward at it for its position was immediately over my own i fancied that i saw it in motion .
i had been reserved for the latter .
this he poised suspiciously in his hand, then eyed it with an air of extreme surprise, and was evidently astonished at its weight .
with deep and reverent awe i replaced the candelabrum in its former position .
 ''in some respects, '' he replied,  ''your idea is not irrelevant .
one of these he maintained to be the head of cicero; the other he imagined a composite one, being demosthenes  ' from the top of the forehead to the mouth, and lord brougham's from the mouth to the chin .
we object to it as a mere theory assumed in the first place, and to which circumstances are afterwards made to adapt themselves .
 ''the noble lady who sits opposite is queen pest, our serene consort .
but of the worm 's metamorphosis we are palpably cognizant .
what inexpressible madness seized me with that thought?
 ''entitled, '' i repeated,  ''to no earthly commiseration .
on the day in which i visited the ship the fourteenth, wyatt and party were also to visit it so the captain informed me and i waited on board an hour longer than i had designed, in hope of being presented to the bride, but then an apology came .
the balloon at first collapsed, then furiously expanded, then whirled round and round with horrible velocity, and finally, reeling and staggering like a drunken man, hurled me with great force over the rim of the car, and left me dangling, at a terrific height, with my head downward, and my face outwards, by a piece of slender cord about three feet in length, which hung accidentally through a crevice near the bottom of the wicker work, and in which, as i fell, my left foot became most providentially entangled .
the city was in comparative repose .
it is clear that kidd if kidd indeed secreted this treasure, which i doubt not it is clear that he must have had assistance in the labor .
 ''reperuse now that portion of this argument which has reference to the identification of the corpse by beauvais .
there is some defect in one of his feet .
maelzel now informs the company that he will disclose to their view the mechanism of the machine .
to be enamored of the night for her own sake; and into this bizarrerie, as into all his others, i quietly fell; giving myself up to his wild whims with a perfect abandon .
he had the ordinary temperament of genius, and was a compound of misanthropy, sensibility, and enthusiasm .
the night arrives and no sofa .
three of these are on each side of the figure .
having carefully perused the column of  ''houses to let, '' and the column of  ''dogs lost, '' and then the two columns of  ''wives and apprentices runaway, '' i attacked with great resolution the editorial matter, and, reading it from beginning to end without understanding a syllable, conceived the possibility of its being chinese, and so re read it from the end to the beginning, but with no more satisfactory result .
numerous invitations on the part of the neighborhood for a long time, however, periodically came in .
wouldn 't pull it no go .
in this position he sees the chess board through the bosom of the turk which is of gauze .
i saw not then what i now clearly perceive, that the acquisitions of ligeia were gigantic, were astounding; yet i was sufficiently aware of her infinite supremacy to resign myself, with a child like confidence, to her guidance through the chaotic world of metaphysical investigation at which i was most busily occupied during the earlier years of our marriage .
thus the usual track of supposition was thoroughly broken up .
this circumstance favored me greatly in the project i now determined to adopt .
i asked,  ''the women and all? ''  ''assuredly, '' he said,  ''we could not do at all without the women; they are the best lunatic nurses in the world; they have a way of their own, you know; their bright eyes have a marvellous effect; something like the fascination of the snake, you know . ''
in its size i had been greatly mistaken .
v  . hesitating for many minutes.
and then then, when poring over forbidden pages, i felt a forbidden spirit enkindling within me would morella place her cold hand upon my own, and rake up from the ashes of a dead philosophy some low, singular words, whose strange meaning burned themselves in upon my memory .
i had felt that some palpable although invisible object had passed lightly by my person; and i saw that there lay upon the golden carpet, in the very middle of the rich lustre thrown from the censer, a shadow a faint, indefinite shadow of angelic aspect such as might be fancied for the shadow of a shade .
we replaced and screwed down the lid, and, having secured the door of iron, made our way, with toil, into the scarcely less gloomy apartments of the upper portion of the house .
in such experiments with this patient i had never perfectly succeeded before, and assuredly i had little thought of succeeding now; but to my astonishment, his arm very readily, although feebly, followed every direction i assigned it with mine .
let me see i will go and ask pundit and be back in a minute     .... ah, here we have it here is a book written nearly a thousand years ago and lately translated from the inglitch which, by the way, appears to have been the rudiment of the amriccan.
here the vast bed of the waters, seamed and scarred into a thousand conflicting channels, burst suddenly into phrensied convulsion heaving, boiling, hissing gyrating in gigantic and innumerable vortices, and all whirling and plunging on to the eastward with a rapidity which water never elsewhere assumes except in precipitous descents .
the gables are turned to the front, and there are cornices, as big as all the rest of the house, over the eaves and over the main doors .
this first sense of pain lay in a rigorous constriction of the breast and lungs, and an insufferable dryness of the skin .
the funeral, in short, was hastened, on account of the rapid advance of what was supposed to be decomposition .
 ''well, jup, '' said i,  ''what is the matter now? how is your master? ''  ''why, to speak de troof, massa, him not so berry well as mought be  . ''  ''not well i am truly sorry to hear it.
having obtained an oar at the water gate, we proceeded together to his residence, while he rapidly recovered his self possession, and spoke of our former slight acquaintance in terms of great apparent cordiality .
but the reverse is seen to be the case, and this reverse applies precisely to our supposition of a man in the interior .
proceeding southwardly, the explorer saw, at first, the same class of trees, but less and less lofty and salvatorish in character; then he saw the gentler elm, succeeded by the sassafras and locust these again by the softer linden, red bud, catalpa, and maple these yet again by still more graceful and more modest varieties .
i now looked at the nail .
the faculty of re solution is possibly much invigorated by mathematical study, and especially by that highest branch of it which, unjustly, and merely on account of its retrograde operations, has been called, as if par excellence, analysis .
well, go on my wife, mrs  . trotter, will give you the five dollars i left instructions with her to that effect.
from the tables we removed the tops . ''
   ''thus we see, at a glance, that what has been most triumphantly adduced in support of the idea that the articles had been 'for at least three or four weeks' in the thicket, is most absurdly null as regards any evidence of that fact .
here was indeed a mystery which i felt it impossible to explain; but, even at that early moment, there seemed to glimmer, faintly, within the most remote and secret chambers of my intellect, a glow worm like conception of that truth which last night 's adventure brought to so magnificent a demonstration .
when they proceeded hoggishly, their  ''facts '' were by no means always facts a matter of little consequence had it not been for assuming that they were facts and must be facts because they appeared to be such .
we got under way with a mere breath of wind, and for many days stood along the eastern coast of java, without any other incident to beguile the monotony of our course than the occasional meeting with some of the small grabs of the archipelago to which we were bound .
  ''and how long, then, did the madmen reign? ''  ''oh, a very long time, indeed a month certainly how much longer i can't precisely say .
it was evident that, so far, death or what is usually termed death had been arrested by the mesmeric process .
for many minutes of a dreamy and trembling abstraction, i busied myself in vain, unconnected conjecture .
in a word, why did he abandon four thousand francs in gold to encumber himself with a bundle of linen?
such opinions need no comment, and i will make none .
all was now confusion and despair but an effort was made to lighten the ship by throwing overboard as much of her cargo as could be reached, and by cutting away the two masts that remained .
and at this thought i paused .
i have said that ellison was remarkable in the continuous profusion of good gifts lavished upon him by fortune .
it was not until toward the close of the fourth year of our search that we found a locality with which ellison professed himself satisfied .
if, for example, there should be a deposition of moisture upon the silk, and the machine begins to descend in consequence, there will be no necessity for discharging ballast to remedy the increase of weight, for it is remedied, or counteracted, in an exactly just proportion, by the deposit on the ground of just so much of the end of the rope as is necessary .
crossing the ocean in a balloon is not so difficult a feat after all .
how very wonderfully do we see verified every day, the profound observation of the hindoo aries tottle as quoted by pundit  ''thus must we say that, not once or twice, or a few times, but with almost infinite repetitions, the same opinions come round in a circle among men . ''
in vain i struggled to perfect to regain it .
indeed, there is no other way of accounting for the variation in question .
i jumped up to examine the clock, and found that it had ceased running .
we must endeavor to satisfy ourselves by personal inquiry .
the ring is clamorously identified, the reward is paid, and the finder nearly thrust out of doors .
we remained here a week, were not ill treated by the wreckers, and at length obtained a passage to new york .
 ''william bird, tailor deposes that he was one of the party who entered the house .
vidocq, for example, was a good guesser and a persevering man .
found a startling diminution in the apparent diameter of the earth, and a considerable increase, now observable for the first time, in that of the moon itself, which wanted only a few days of being full .
we at once saw the impossibility of removing so great a weight .
with the mouth and chin of a deity singular, wild, full, liquid eyes, whose shadows varied from pure hazel to intense and brilliant jet and a profusion of curling, black hair, from which a forehead of unusual breadth gleamed forth at intervals all light and ivory his were features than which i have seen none more classically regular, except, perhaps, the marble ones of the emperor commodus .
among angels, my oinos, it is seen to be simply true .
at this juncture enters the minister d  .
were it later for example, were it the year of our lord eighteen hundred and forty five, we should be deprived of this extraordinary spectacle .
west of this door was a single window, looking toward the brook .
his eyes flashed with a fierce light .
he took me into his confidence, gave me a permanent situation as thomas hawk of the  ''lollipop, '' and, as for the present, he could afford me no salary, allowed me to profit, at discretion, by his advice .
see the whole town is topsy turvy .
the main compartment itself in speaking of that portion of the box visible upon opening doors and , we shall always call it the main compartment is lined with dark cloth and contains no machinery whatever beyond two pieces of steel, quadrant shaped, and situated one in each of the rear top corners of the compartment .
 ''i dispute the availability, and thus the value, of that reason which is cultivated in any especial form other than the abstractly logical .
in the quivering of a leaf in the hue of a blade of grass in the shape of a trefoil in the humming of a bee in the gleaming of a dew drop in the breathing of the wind in the faint odors that came from the forest there came a whole universe of suggestion a gay and motley train of rhapsodical and immethodical thought .
the great clock of the piazza had sounded the fifth hour of the italian evening .
of this party i was one, and did all i could to prevent the rash and fatal sally of the officer who fell, in the crowded alleys, by the poisoned arrow of a bengalee .
i avoided him during the rest of the passage, by advice of the captain, who seemed to coincide with me altogether in my views of his insanity, but cautioned me to say nothing on this head to any person on board .
and travellers now within that valley, through the red litten windows, see vast forms that move fantastically to a discordant melody; while, like a rapid ghastly river, through the pale door, a hideous throng rush out forever, and laugh but smile no more .
in each of the angles of the chamber stood on end a gigantic sarcophagus of black granite, from the tombs of the kings over against luxor, with their aged lids full of immemorial sculpture .
we are told that on one occasion, while a madame b was at madame rogêt 's house, m      . beauvais, who was going out, told her that a gendarme was expected there, and she, madame b., must not say anything to the gendarme until he returned, but let the matter be for him....
can you not fancy the shout of scorn with which my words would be received by our progenitors were it possible for them to be now looking over my shoulder?
one of the phantasmagoric conceptions of my friend, partaking not so rigidly of the spirit of abstraction, may be shadowed forth, although feebly, in words .
we had drawn the god eros from that wave, and now we felt that he had enkindled within us the fiery souls of our forefathers .
the greatest care had been taken to preserve a due medium between the neat and graceful on the one hand, and the pittoresque, in the true sense of the italian term, on the other .
  ''one day, having given my creditors the slip, and feeling more than usually dejected, i continued for a long time to wander about the most obscure streets without object whatever, until at length i chanced to stumble against the corner of a bookseller's stall .
but in the ultimate, unorganized life, the external world reaches the whole body, which is of a substance having affinity to brain, as i have said, with no other intervention than that of an infinitely rarer ether than even the luminiferous; and to this ether in unison with it the whole body vibrates, setting in motion the unparticled matter which permeates it .
three of these were filled with statues of gigantic proportions .
and i have now mentioned all the provinces in which the common understanding of the poetic sentiment has declared it capable of expatiating .
there were two round, black spots near one extremity of the back, and a long one near the other .
the gentlemen said little about her; but the ladies, in a little while, pronounced her  ''a good hearted thing, rather indifferent looking, totally uneducated, and decidedly vulgar . ''
it was the pregnancy of solemn admonition in the singular, low, hissing utterance; and, above all, it was the character, the tone, the key, of those few, simple, and familiar, yet whispered syllables, which came with a thousand thronging memories of bygone days, and struck upon my soul with the shock of a galvanic battery .
at every instant the vessel seemed imprisoned within an enchanted circle, having insuperable and impenetrable walls of foliage, a roof of ultramarine satin, and no floor the keel balancing itself with admirable nicety on that of a phantom bark which, by some accident having been turned upside down, floated in constant company with the substantial one, for the purpose of sustaining it .
in fact, he had made up his mind for a voyage to the south seas, when a night 's reflection induced him to abandon the idea .
round the skirts of the valley which is quite level, and paved throughout with flat tiles, extends a continuous row of sixty little houses .
some made it as short as three minutes some as long as five .
my father suggested that i should send it to the  ''gad fly '' but there were two reasons which operated to prevent me from so doing .
now, my state room opened into the main cabin, or dining room, as did those of all the single men on board .
it is not, however, with l 'etoile that we have to do, but with the truth .
was it not socrates who said that the statuary found his statue in the block of marble?
yes, he was stone, stone dead .
it is, indeed evident, that with less of the instinctive philosophy which, now and then, stands so well in the stead of experience, mr  . ellison would have found himself precipitated, by the very extraordinary successes of his life, into the common vortex of unhappiness which yawns for those of preeminent endowments.
i did this at some little risk, and before closing the mouth of the chamber, by reaching under the car with one of the poles before mentioned to which a hook had been attached .
he was short of breath to say all in a word, he was short of breath .
the agony of suspense grew at length intolerable, and i cautiously moved forward, with my arms extended, and my eyes straining from their sockets, in the hope of catching some faint ray of light .
within were three or four large stones, forming a kind of seat with a back and footstool .
he had crossed the river with her in an open ferry boat .
now, i suppose, you can find the left eye of the skull, or the place where the left eye has been .
at length, having spoken one day, in tears, of the last sad change which must befall humanity, she thenceforward dwelt only upon this one sorrowful theme, interweaving it into all our converse, as, in the songs of the bard of schiraz, the same images are found occurring, again and again, in every impressive variation of phrase .
 ''now, jup, '' cried legrand, evidently much excited,  ''i want you to work your way out upon that limb as far as you can .
our own vessel was at length ceasing from her struggles, and sinking with her head to the sea .
my first endeavor was to divide the sentence into the natural division intended by the cryptographist . ''
was sure that the shrill voice was not that of either of the deceased .
 ''at first i was too much confused to observe anything accurately .
behold me then safely ensconced in my private boudoir, a fearful instance of the ill consequences attending upon irascibility alive, with the qualifications of the dead dead, with the propensities of the living an anomaly on the face of the earth being very calm, yet breathless .
i always attributed my failure at these points to the disordered state of his health .
but it is mere idleness to say that i had not lived before that the soul has no previous existence .
of course, then, it is the interest of the proprietor to represent it as a pure machine .
 ''but was this species of acquiescence all? ''  ''by no means .
of her family i have surely heard her speak .
no care no hope no effort .
about eight o 'clock at night, having become seriously alarmed at his protracted absence, we were about setting out in search of him, when he unexpectedly made his appearance, in health no worse than usual, and in rather more than ordinary spirits .
were he not alexander he would be diogenes .
  ''you looked among d 's papers, of course, and into the books of the library? ''  ''certainly; we opened every package and parcel; we not only opened every book, but we turned over every leaf in each volume, not contenting ourselves with a mere shake, according to the fashion of some of our police officers .
he wished to give his invention a trial, i suppose, and so he persuaded the rest of the patients to join him in a conspiracy for the overthrow of the reigning powers . ''
with these i spent most of my time, and never was so happy as when feeding and caressing them .
but within me is a pledge of that affection ah, how little which thou didst feel for me, morella .
i doubted the care, the fidelity of my dearest friends .
if hemmed, the matter is nearly out of the question .
for such follies, even in childhood, i had imbibed a taste and now they came back to me as if in the dotage of grief .
this done, let us compare these communications, both as regards style and ms  ., with those sent to the morning paper, at a previous period, and insisting so vehemently upon the guilt of mennais.
yet he did not remove it .
the little river which turned sharply in its course, and was thus immediately lost to sight, seemed to have no exit from its prison, but to be absorbed by the deep green foliage of the trees to the east while in the opposite quarter so it appeared to me as i lay at length and glanced upward there poured down noiselessly and continuously into the valley, a rich golden and crimson waterfall from the sunset fountains of the sky .
the sailor 's face flushed up as if he were struggling with suffocation .
this thing, for very obvious reasons, i found it quite impossible to do .
in the sense i intend, it is, in fact, a mobile without motive, a motive not motivirt .
we will only suggest that, although the top of the box is apparently a board of about three inches in thickness, the spectator may satisfy himself by stooping and looking up at it when the main compartment is open, that it is in reality very thin .
   ''the 'gazette,' '' he replied,  ''has not entered, i fear, into the unusual horror of the thing .
it was now evident that its nucleus would first reach us .
am very willing to pay a reward for the finding of the animal that is to say, any thing in reason . ''
hitherto she had steadily borne up against the pressure of her malady, and had not betaken herself finally to bed; but, on the closing in of the evening of my arrival at the house, she succumbed as her brother told me at night with inexpressible agitation to the prostrating power of the destroyer; and i learned that the glimpse i had obtained of her person would thus probably be the last i should obtain that the lady, at least while living, would be seen by me no more .
 ''and now a new object took possession of my soul .
while musing upon the singularity of my fate, i unwittingly daubed with a tar brush the edges of a neatly folded studding sail which lay near me on a barrel .
i wish you all health, and a little more courtesy .
any risk would have been preferred to a return to that accursed shore .
it is the usual sunday resort of blackguards from the city, who cross the river in boats .
dxn   't crxw, anxther time, befxre yxu're xut xf the wxxds dxes yxur mxther knxw yxu're xut?
all attempts at analyzing the unknown substance have, so far, failed, but that it will ultimately be analyzed, is not to be doubted .
diana, my poodle sweetest of creatures she had a quantity of hair over her one eye, and a blue ribband tied fashionably around her neck .
how the devil sir, did you get into this place?
i was, therefore, quite anxious to make her acquaintance .
at first i made an endeavor to re compose the patient; but, failing in this through total abeyance of the will, i retraced my steps and as earnestly struggled to awaken him .
at first i took it for a rumbling in my ears such as a man sometimes experiences when getting very drunk but, upon second thought, i considered the sound as more nearly resembling that which proceeds from an empty barrel beaten with a big stick; and, in fact, this i should have concluded it to be, but for the articulation of the syllables and words .
but the duc 's heart is fainting within him .
one step one little, little step upon one such little step in the great staircase of human life how vast a sum of human happiness or misery depends i thought of myself, then of pompey, and then of the mysterious and inexplicable destiny which surrounded us .
as i had never visited a place of the kind, i thought the opportunity too good to be lost; and so proposed to my travelling companion a gentleman with whom i had made casual acquaintance a few days before that we should turn aside, for an hour or so, and look through the establishment .
the person of whom i speak, seemed born for the purpose of foreshadowing the wild doctrines of turgot, price, priestley, and condorcet of exemplifying, by individual instance, what has been deemed the mere chimera of the perfectionists .
 ''proceed, '' said i  .  ''or not, '' said dupin.
it is merely the idea of what would be our sensations during the sweeping precipitancy of a fall from such a height .
 ''indeed i have always understood that the majority of lunatics were of the gentler sex  . ''  ''it is generally so, but not always.
when he again spoke, his voice had resumed all that rich melody and strength which i had noticed upon our original introduction .
in this respect i did not differ from him materially: i was skilful in the italian vintages myself, and bought largely whenever i could .
fortunately, there is but one mode of reasoning upon the point, and that mode must lead us to a definite decision .
there was much lore too in the sayings which were said by the sybils; and holy, holy things were heard of old by the dim leaves that trembled around dodona but, as allah liveth, that fable which the demon told me as he sat by my side in the shadow of the tomb, i hold to be the most wonderful of all and as the demon made an end of his story, he fell back within the cavity of the tomb and laughed .
watching my opportunity, when i thought the audience were fully engaged with the opera, i at length caught the eyes of madame lalande, and, upon the instant, made a slight but unmistakable bow .
under other circumstances than those which invested him, it is not impossible that he would have become a painter .
as before, some minutes elapsed ere a reply was made; and during the interval the dying man seemed to be collecting his energies to speak .
you are, beyond doubt, uninformed of the true character of the person who has to night won at ecarte a large sum of money from lord glendinning .
these, for a time, were unsuccessful .
arose in good health and spirits, and was astonished at the singular change which had taken place in the appearance of the sea .
in the narrow limits of that bower, it would have been scarcely possible that the petticoat and scarf should have retained a position upon the stones, when subjected to the brushing to and fro of many struggling persons .
nothing could be more rigorously simple than the furniture of the parlor .
assist me, spirit of apicius a golden cage bore the little winged wanderer, enamored, melting, indolent, to the chaussée d 'antin, from its home in far peru .
my acquaintance with him was casual altogether; and i am scarcely warranted in saying that i know him at all; but to have seen and conversed with a man of so prodigious a notoriety as he has attained, or will attain in a few days, is not a small matter, as times go .
it likewise happens frequently, that whales come too near the stream, and are overpowered by its violence; and then it is impossible to describe their howlings and bellowings in their fruitless struggles to disengage themselves .
a quick step was now heard upon the staircase, and a loud knock at the door rapidly succeeded .
my first idea, now, was mere surprise at the really remarkable similarity of outline at the singular coincidence involved in the fact, that unknown to me, there should have been a skull upon the other side of the parchment, immediately beneath my figure of the scarabæus, and that this skull, not only in outline, but in size, should so closely resemble my drawing .
so, at least i thought: but i had not counted upon the extent of the dungeon, or upon my own weakness .
for want of a better word we might term it spirit .
there is scarcely an insane asylum in france which cannot supply a human tea pot .
three, four quite right say to mrs  . trotter that you met me, and be sure now and do not loiter on the way. ''
the ceiling, of gloomy looking oak, was excessively lofty, vaulted, and elaborately fretted with the wildest and most grotesque specimens of a semi gothic, semi druidical device .
what is all this boring, and probing, and sounding, and scrutinizing with the microscope and dividing the surface of the building into registered square inches what is it all but an exaggeration of the application of the one principle or set of principles of search, which are based upon the one set of notions regarding human ingenuity, to which the prefect, in the long routine of his duty, has been accustomed?
he at length succeeded in regaining his former station on the rim, but had hardly done so when his head dropped upon his breast, and he fell dead within the car .
the lenticular shaped phenomenon, also called the zodiacal light, was a matter worthy of attention .
it was a black cat a very large one fully as large as pluto, and closely resembling him in every respect but one .
on page , we have the following:  ''what a prodigious influence must our thirteen times larger globe have exercised upon this satellite when an embryo in the womb of time, the passive subject of chemical affinity '' this is very fine; but it should be observed that no astronomer would have made such remark, especially to any journal of science; for the earth, in the sense intended, is not only thirteen, but forty nine times larger than the moon .
when they had gone, i spoke freely with m  . valdemar on the subject of his approaching dissolution, as well as, more particularly, of the experiment proposed.
the   ''flight '' is made on an eagle's back, from hungry hill, a lofty mountain at the end of bantry bay .
   ''it was at this juncture that mr   . monck mason whose voyage from dover to weilburg in the balloon,  ''nassau, '' occasioned so much excitement in , conceived the idea of employing the principle of the archimedean screw for the purpose of propulsion through the air rightly attributing the failure of mr. henson's scheme, and of sir george cayley's, to the interruption of surface in the independent vanes.
from the bright epoch which i now record, my actions my works are the property of mankind .
he begged me not to be impatient to moderate my transports to read soothing books to drink nothing stronger than hock and to bring the consolations of philosophy to my aid .
you recollect also, that i became quite vexed at you for insisting that my drawing resembled a death 's head .
i could only conceive this singular behavior to arise from a consummate self conceit assuming the vulgar airs of patronage and protection .
when at last the clanking subsided, i resumed the trowel, and finished without interruption the fifth, the sixth, and the seventh tier .
incomprehensible men wrapped up in meditations of a kind which i cannot divine, they pass me by unnoticed .
here again he made an anxious examination of the paper; turning it in all directions .
his ultimate design was to sell it .
yet it is obviously from such prominent discrepancies or incongruities as this that deductions are to be made if made at all which shall lead us to the truth .
their number would have inspired them with confidence; if, indeed confidence is ever wanting in the breast of the arrant blackguard; and of arrant blackguards alone are the supposed gangs ever constituted .
le diligence thursday, june  .
 ''divine soul '' said fraser .
i tried how steadily i could maintain the ray upon the eve .
 ''as i live, '' i replied .
and i was going back into the morass, when the moon shone with a fuller red, and i turned and looked again upon the rock, and upon the characters; and the characters were desolation .
for me at least in the circumstances then surrounding me there arose out of the pure abstractions which the hypochondriac contrived to throw upon his canvass, an intensity of intolerable awe, no shadow of which felt i ever yet in the contemplation of the certainly glowing yet too concrete reveries of fuseli .
women were screaming .
and it might have been for this reason only, that, when i again uplifted my eyes to the house itself, from its image in the pool, there grew in my mind a strange fancy a fancy so ridiculous, indeed, that i but mention it to show the vivid force of the sensations which oppressed me .
yet, for some minutes longer i refrained and stood still .
my implements were all safe, and, fortunately, i had lost neither ballast nor provisions .
he was forthwith conveyed to the nearest hospital, and there pronounced to be still living, although in an asphytic condition .
yet i would not suffer my thoughts for any length of time to dwell upon these latter speculations, rightly judging the real and palpable dangers of the voyage sufficient for my undivided attention .
on the list were several of my acquaintances, and among other names, i was rejoiced to see that of mr  . cornelius wyatt, a young artist, for whom i entertained feelings of warm friendship.
not a single little o was in the little o hole; and, glancing fearfully at the capital o partition, he found that to his extreme terror, in a precisely similar predicament .
we kept on in this manner throughout the day, with no material incident, and, as the shades of night closed around us, we made a rough estimate of the distance traversed .
le commerciel wishes to intimate that marie was seized by some gang of low ruffians not far from her mother 's door .
my plan was exceedingly simple .
i would have removed my position to one nearer her own, but the crowded state of the theatre rendered this impossible; and the stern decrees of fashion had, of late, imperatively prohibited the use of the opera glass in a case such as this, even had i been so fortunate as to have one with me but i had not and was thus in despair .
after the recognition of the corpse, it was not, as usual, taken to the morgue, this formality being superfluous, but hastily interred not far from the spot at which it was brought ashore .
their origin was to be looked for in the progressive removal of the customary atmospheric pressure upon the surface of the body, and consequent distention of the superficial blood vessels not in any positive disorganization of the animal system, as in the case of difficulty in breathing, where the atmospheric density is chemically insufficient for the due renovation of blood in a ventricle of the heart .
on this day, wednesday, the twenty fifth of june, a monsieur beauvais, who, with a friend, had been making inquiries for marie near the barrière du roule, on the shore of the seine which is opposite the rue pavée st  . andrée, was informed that a corpse had just been towed ashore by some fishermen, who had found it floating in the river.
to him a pas de papillon has been an abstract conception .
but there was no voice throughout the vast illimitable desert, and the characters upon the rock were silence .
the magician then arises from his seat, bows his head, describes circles with his wand, and consulting the book as if in deep thought, he lifts it towards his face .
    ''moissart and voissart '' i repeated, thoughtfully, as she cut one of her pigeon wings, and  ''croissart and froissart '' as she completed another  ''moissart and voissart and croissart and napoleon bonaparte froissart why, you ineffable old serpent, that's me that's me d'ye hear?
b  . the poisonous sangsue of charlottesville may always be distinguished from the medicinal leech by its blackness, and especially by its writhing or vermicular motions, which very nearly resemble those of a snake. ''
if indeed such angels there be .
the impetuous fury of the entering gust nearly lifted us from our feet .
i explained to them, in a few words, what i designed, and as they opposed no objection, saying that the patient was already in the death agony, i proceeded without hesitation exchanging, however, the lateral passes for downward ones, and directing my gaze entirely into the right eye of the sufferer .
the facts here re stated by le soleil, are very far indeed from removing my own doubts upon this subject, and we will examine them more particularly hereafter in connexion with another division of the theme .
this latter point, however, was fully disproved .
the pieces of her frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six inches long .
by the by, he came away from down east in a great hurry .
it was the beating of the old man 's heart .
it had been my design, originally, to wait for the physicians; but i was induced to proceed, first, by the urgent entreaties of m  . valdemar, and secondly, by my conviction that i had not a moment to lose, as he was evidently sinking fast.
the chances are ten to one, that he who had once eloped with marie, would again propose an elopement, rather than that she to whom proposals of elopement had been made by one individual, should have them made to her by another .
that this   'bandage,' only attainable with trouble and delay, and but imperfectly answering its purpose that this bandage was employed at all, demonstrates that the necessity for its employment sprang from circumstances arising at a period when the handkerchief was no longer attainable that is to say, arising, as we have imagined, after quitting the thicket, if the thicket it was, and on the road between the thicket and the river .
 ''he has been twice waylaid, as if by footpads, and his person rigorously searched under my own inspection . ''
as it was, i at length grew restive in the extreme under his distasteful supervision, and daily resented more and more openly what i considered his intolerable arrogance .
i dragged my watch from its fob .
i took thee, just now, from a rose wood coffin inlaid with ivory .
 ''saturday, april the th .
a young practising physician, too, having applied a pocket mirror to my mouth, and found me without breath, the assertion of my persecutor was pronounced a true bill; and the whole party expressed a determination to endure tamely no such impositions for the future, and to proceed no farther with any such carcasses for the present .
that the passages quoted above, with the other similar ones referred to, gave von kempelen the hint, i do not in the slightest degree question; but i repeat, it yet remains to be seen whether this momentous discovery itself momentous under any circumstances will be of service or disservice to mankind at large .
but this is no answer at all, by his own showing, for has he not just admitted as a truism that  ''ability or inability to conceive is in no case to be received as a criterion of axiomatic truth . ''
hard fate yet there was some alleviation to the first overwhelming paroxysm of my sorrow .
but, of course, as i had no wish to put an end to the conference, i assented to a proposition so very obvious, and one, too, of whose truth i had all along been sufficiently aware .
my brother was at the stern, holding on to a small empty water cask which had been securely lashed under the coop of the counter, and was the only thing on deck that had not been swept overboard when the gale first took us .
in a night such as is this to me, a man lives lives a whole century of ordinary life nor would i forego this rapturous delight for that of a whole century of ordinary existence .
and, indeed the case was just the same with all the other clocks and watches in the borough .
but these figures partook of the true character of the arabesque only when regarded from a single point of view .
 ''bless my soul blood and thunder, and all that prodigies of valor heard of him of course?
 ''hem '' said he,  ''good boy go on ''  ''i am sure, my dearest uncle you confounded old rascal, that you have no design really, seriously, to oppose my union with kate .
at right angles to these buildings, and from the rear of the main one not exactly in the middle extended a third compartment, very small being, in general, one third less than the western wing .
it now required long and excessive labor to condense within the chamber sufficient atmospheric air for the sustenance of life .
in this state of mind, wishing to live, yet wearied with life, the treatise at the stall of the bookseller opened a resource to my imagination .
i knew that it was now midnight, and i was well aware, that since the setting of the sun, berenice had been interred .
for, in respect to the latter branch of the supposition, it should be considered that the most trifling variation in the facts of the two cases might give rise to the most important miscalculations, by diverting thoroughly the two courses of events; very much as, in arithmetic, an error which, in its own individuality, may be inappreciable, produces, at length, by dint of multiplication at all points of the process, a result enormously at variance with truth .
presently he took from his coat pocket a wallet, placed the paper carefully in it, and deposited both in a writing desk, which he locked .
it was an ordinary parisian house, with a gateway, on one side of which was a glazed watch box, with a sliding panel in the window, indicating a loge de concierge .
the fellow opened his mouth from ear to ear, and shut his two eyes as if he were endeavoring to crack nuts between the lids .
at eight p   . m., the clouds broke away to windward, and we had the advantage of a full moon a piece of good fortune which served wonderfully to cheer our drooping spirits.
encompassed by the massy walls of this venerable academy, i passed, yet not in tedium or disgust, the years of the third lustrum of my life .
i tore a part of the hem from the robe and placed the fragment at full length, and at right angles to the wall .
thus, the balloon can neither ascend or descend, except within very narrow limits, and its resources, either in gas or ballast, remain comparatively unimpaired .
 ''then you are not of the brotherhood . ''
it must: but a true philosophy has long taught that the source of all motion is thought and the source of all thought is oinos .
object there was none .
wildly excited with wine, the unexpected interruption rather delighted than surprised me .
this would naturally have been the case .
this done, he opens the doors no   . and no. , the folding doors and displays the interior of the main compartment.
all the movements of the arm are at right angles .
his jaws, which had been newly shaved, were tightly tied up by a bandage of muslin; and his arms being fastened in a similar way at the wrists, i prevented him from helping himself too freely to the liquors upon the table; a precaution rendered necessary, in the opinion of legs, by the peculiarly sottish and wine bibbing cast of his visage .
from the very nature of such fabrics, a thorn or nail becoming entangled in them, tears them rectangularly divides them into two longitudinal rents, at right angles with each other, and meeting at an apex where the thorn enters but it is scarcely possible to conceive the piece   'torn off .'
 ''readily; i have solved others of an abstruseness ten thousand times greater .
at this shadow i gazed wonderingly for many minutes .
in fact, i no longer dared trust myself out of the immediate presence of those who were aware of my proneness to catalepsy, lest, falling into one of my usual fits, i should be buried before my real condition could be ascertained .
here mr  . crab concluded, and the tears stood in his eyes.
where were the souls of the haughty family of the bride, when, through thirst of gold, they permitted to pass the threshold of an apartment so bedecked, a maiden and a daughter so beloved?
here he turned impatiently toward the stage .
but having at length accomplished it, i soon began to reap the benefit of my invention .
as for bob, he would have considered it heretical to employ any other character, in a case of this kind, than the x to which he had been accustomed .
do i not distinguish that heavy and horrible beating of her heart?
it may seem strange that in spite of the continual anxiety occasioned me by the rivalry of wilson, and his intolerable spirit of contradiction, i could not bring myself to hate him altogether .
they they alone were present to the mental eye, and they, in their sole individuality, became the essence of my mental life .
i had indeed made a narrow escape .
most fearfully, fearfully this is indeed no dream .
a similar objection applies to the whole of the concluding pages, where, by way of introduction to some discoveries in saturn, the philosophical correspondent enters into a minute schoolboy account of that planet this to the  ''edinburgh journal of science '' but there is one point, in particular, which should have betrayed the fiction .
the box behind which the automaton is placed, is precisely three feet six inches long, two feet four inches deep, and two feet six inches high .
she had not returned my letter unopened .
up to his discovery, the process of inflation was not only exceedingly expensive, but uncertain .
what else could i think?
and the will therein lieth, which dieth not .
as night came on, every breath of wind died away, an more entire calm it is impossible to conceive .
it was of the size of life, and so perfect an imitation of the living animal that all the spectators were deceived .
it is difficult, indeed, to define, or even to describe, my real feelings towards him .
stunned by the shock of the water, i found myself, upon recovery, jammed in between the stern post and rudder .
i called to mind the great variety of buoyant matter that strewed the coast of lofoden, having been absorbed and then thrown forth by the moskoe ström .
just as i placed the parchment in your hand, and as you were in the act of inspecting it, wolf, the newfoundland, entered, and leaped upon your shoulders .
although m  . maelzel, in disclosing the interior of the machine, sometimes slightly deviates from the routine which we have pointed out, yet reeler in any instance does he so deviate from it as to interfere with our solution.
 ''profound thinker '' said the dublin .
she is undoubtedly in painting what the venus is in sculpture . ''
oppressed with a tumult of vague hopes and fears, i at length heard the footsteps of my wife descending the staircase .
for, this infirmity you virtually deny, in refusing to employ the customary means for its relief .
plainly i perceived the loosening of the bandage .
the instant that i left    'the devil's seat,' however, the circular rift vanished; nor could i get a glimpse of it afterwards, turn as i would .
upon the broad black marble flagstones at the entrance of the palace, and a few steps above the water, stood a figure which none who then saw can have ever since forgotten .
that it was not the case, however, my precipitous downfall gave testimony enough; why it was not so, can only be explained by a reference to those possible geological disturbances to which i have formerly alluded .
it was mr  . ellison who first suggested the idea that what we regarded as improvement or exaltation of the natural beauty, was really such, as respected only the mortal or human point of view; that each alteration or disturbance of the primitive scenery might possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we could suppose this picture viewed at large from some remote point in the heavens.
she fell dead upon the spot, without a groan .
thus ended my conference with the best of men, and immediately upon its termination, i betook myself with zeal to my poetical labors; as upon these, chiefly, i founded my hopes of ultimate elevation to the editorial chair .
a neat diddle is this .
upon my recovery, too, i felt very oh, inexpressibly sick and weak, as if through long inanition .
he repeated the movement a grotesque one .
it was his custom, indeed, to speak calmly of his approaching dissolution, as of a matter neither to be avoided nor regretted .
any scrap will answer, because you must depend upon your own ingenuity to make it fit into your article .
as he justly observed, it was  ''simple neat and gave no trouble at all not the least . ''
they shrank alarmedly back; many sought the well .
it is the likeness of a dead friend a mr  . oldeb to whom i became much attached at calcutta, during the administration of warren hastings.
they will soon rise again, however but not till the salt melts . ''
close curtains were around it, which, in the prosecution of my plan, i slowly and quietly withdrew, when the bright rays fell vividly upon the sleeper, and my eyes, at the same moment, upon his countenance .
i merely laughed but he seemed quite serious in all that he said .
an hour thus elapsed when could it be possible?
it was during one of my lonely journeyings, amid a far distant region of mountain locked within mountain, and sad rivers and melancholy tarn writhing or sleeping within all that i chanced upon a certain rivulet and island .
at a piano, singing an aria from bellini, sat a young and very beautiful woman, who, at my entrance, paused in her song, and received me with graceful courtesy .
in childhood i must have felt with the energy of a man what i now find stamped upon memory in lines as vivid, as deep, and as durable as the exergues of the carthaginian medals .
had they not, indeed, been intoxicated beyond moral sense, their reeling footsteps must have been palsied by the horrors of their situation .
 ''and will you promise me, upon your honor, that when this freak of yours is over, and the bug business good god settled to your satisfaction, you will then return home and follow my advice implicitly, as that of your physician? ''
i have indeed  ''made history . ''
so far, i had not opened my eyes .
 ''but proceed i am all impatience . ''
to give to this a better colouring, i had contrived to have assembled a party of some eight or ten, and was solicitously careful that the introduction of cards should appear accidental, and originate in the proposal of my contemplated dupe himself .
this, to say the truth, must have cost him no little money, and was made to fit him exceedingly well being fashioned from one of the curiously embroidered silken covers appertaining to those glorious escutcheons which, in england and elsewhere, are customarily hung up, in some conspicuous place, upon the dwellings of departed aristocracy .
 ''looking about me upon the wide waste of liquid ebony on which we were thus borne, i perceived that our boat was not the only object in the embrace of the whirl .
the extreme fury of the blast proved, in a great measure, the salvation of the ship .
went to the theatre, to look for gruff .
thus i found that my senses would shortly give way altogether, and i had already clutched one of the valve ropes with the view of attempting a descent, when the recollection of the trick i had played the three creditors, and the possible consequences to myself, should i return, operated to deter me for the moment .
the words were venom in my ears; and when, upon the day of my arrival, a second william wilson came also to the academy, i felt angry with him for bearing the name, and doubly disgusted with the name because a stranger bore it, who would be the cause of its twofold repetition, who would be constantly in my presence, and whose concerns, in the ordinary routine of the school business, must inevitably, on account of the detestable coincidence, be often confounded with my own .
he may have traced it to the chamber; but, under the agitating circumstances which ensued, he could never have re captured it .
i lost no time, however, in calling upon the editor of the  ''lollipop, '' and had the good fortune to find this gentleman at home .
from comparatively trivial wickedness i passed, with the stride of a giant, into more than the enormities of an elah gabalus .
in fact, having once satisfied themselves that no egress could have been made in this quarter, they would naturally bestow here a very cursory examination .
its weight was about two ounces .
the forehead was high, and very pale, and singularly placid; and the once jetty hair fell partially over it, and overshadowed the hollow temples with innumerable ringlets, now of a vivid yellow, and jarring discordantly, in their fantastic character, with the reigning melancholy of the countenance .
no outlet was observed in any portion of its vast extent, and no torch, or other artificial source of light was discernible; yet a flood of intense rays rolled throughout, and bathed the whole in a ghastly and inappropriate splendor .
i have not the slightest fear for the result .
the face was so far turned toward the stage that, for some minutes, i could not obtain a view of it but the form was divine; no other word can sufficiently express its magnificent proportion and even the term  ''divine '' seems ridiculously feeble as i write it .
in height i am five feet eleven .
his wife was, indeed, as she had been represented, a most lovely, and most accomplished woman .
i must suppose the ship to be within the influence of some strong current, or impetuous under tow .
neither was this species of scepticism likely to be diminished by the character of the life i led at eton .
the distance of its bottom from the deck overhead was precisely the same .
it was in good preservation, having received, apparently, little injury from the convulsion which entombed it .
is not every word an impulse on the air?
this gate is inserted in the lofty wall; which here appears to cross the river at right angles .
it was of no remarkable character, and i had seen it frequently before, for it was the property of the family physician; but how came it there, upon my table, and why did i shudder in regarding it?
it is not to be supposed that a lady, or gentleman either, has been leading the life of a book worm .
all paris is excited by the discovered corpse of marie, a girl young, beautiful and notorious .
in scrutinizing the edges of the paper, i observed them to be more chafed than seemed necessary .
yet, for a wild moment, did my spirit refuse to comprehend the meaning of what i saw .
whole body dreadfully bruised and discolored .
forbear that is sufficient we see, very plainly, how it is done hold hold   '' and several persons were already leaping from their seats to withhold ma'm'selle salsafette from putting herself upon a par with the medicean venus, when the point was very effectually and suddenly accomplished by a series of loud screams, or yells, from some portion of the main body of the chateau .
why then give a date to this story i have to tell?
i waited for some explanation from dupin .
to relieve this, dr  . templeton resorted to topical bleeding.
monsieur le blanc was unable to account for her absence, and madame rogêt was distracted with anxiety and terror .
i say, this occasioned me no little amazement; for i well remember that, in a former conversation with a friend, i particularly inquired if he had at any time met in london the marchesa di mentoni, who for some years previous to her marriage had resided in that city, when his answer, if i mistake not, gave me to understand that he had never visited the metropolis of great britain .
you did say that  ''divested of corporate investiture man were god  . '' v.
he consoles himself, however, that he has not been such a fool as to leave the goods without the money, and re entering his shop with a self satisfied air, feels sensibly hurt and indignant when his master asks him what has become of the change .
he has committed an ignoratio elenchi that is to say, he has understood the words of your proposition, but not the idea .
with these materials and with the aid of my trowel, i began vigorously to wall up the entrance of the niche .
had but little difficulty in getting it open, on account of its being a double or folding gate, and bolted neither at bottom not top .
a mixture of pure art in a garden scene adds to it a great beauty .
many were quite awry .
without, however, taking offence at behaviour so excessively rude, the tall president smiled very graciously upon the intruders nodded to them in a dignified manner with his head of sable plumes and, arising, took each by an arm, and led him to a seat which some others of the company had placed in the meantime for his accommodation .
the date, i may thus say, in regard to the remoteness of its antiquity, cannot be less than any assignable quantity whatsoever .
he had bow legs and was corpulent .
after a while, i heard the voice of an old swede, who had shipped with us at the moment of our leaving port .
the disease which had thus entombed the lady in the maturity of youth, had left, as usual in all maladies of a strictly cataleptical character, the mockery of a faint blush upon the bosom and the face, and that suspiciously lingering smile upon the lip which is so terrible in death .
the boat, nevertheless, glides magically into the winding channel; and here the shore opposite the wall is found to resemble that opposite the wall in the straight vista .
as for the quarterly cant about  ''sustained effort, '' it is impossible to see the sense of it .
thomas '' turning to me  ''is decidedly the best hand at a cork leg; but if you should ever want an arm, my dear fellow, you must really let me recommend you to bishop . ''
no unguided footstep ever came upon that vale; for it lay away up among a range of giant hills that hung beetling around about it, shutting out the sunlight from its sweetest recesses .
but this cannot be thought a very   ''acute '' observation of the doctor's .
but here the voyager quits the vessel which has borne him so far, and descends into a light canoe of ivory, stained with arabesque devices in vivid scarlet, both within and without .
 ''i am alive, '' were the uncomprehended words which, upon recognizing the locality of the dissecting room, he had endeavored, in his extremity, to utter .
but it has been shown that, in the inorganic life, pain cannot be thus the necessity for the organic .
his body is situated behind the dense machinery in cupboard no    . t. the rear portion of which machinery is so contrived as to slip en masse, from the main compartment to the cupboard no. i, as occasion may require, and his legs lie at full length in the main compartment.
these were carefully removed and searched .
the deductions from the premises are philosophical and acute; but the premises, in two instances, at least, are founded in imperfect observation .
the dress was much torn and otherwise disordered .
   ''butt end ram down my eye ''  ''o yes, by the by, my eye here, pompey, you scamp, screw it in those kickapoos are not so very slow at a gouge; but he's a belied man, that dr  . williams, after all; you can't imagine how well i see with the eyes of his make. ''
i had completed the eighth, the ninth, and the tenth tier .
to one entering the room, they bore the appearance of simple monstrosities; but upon a farther advance, this appearance gradually departed; and step by step, as the visitor moved his station in the chamber, he saw himself surrounded by an endless succession of the ghastly forms which belong to the superstition of the norman, or arise in the guilty slumbers of the monk .
i had become most unaccountably interested nay, even excited .
so you see he would have been a very profound old man, indeed, to suspect that every night, just at twelve, i looked in upon him while he slept .
a reply rejoinder confutation and justification followed in the columns of a democratic gazette .
it contained, when afloat, the captain and his wife, mr  . wyatt and party, a mexican officer, wife, four children, and myself, with a negro valet.
he left the hotel before me, intending to go to new york, and thence to bremen; it was in the latter city that his great discovery was first made public; or, rather, it was there that he was first suspected of having made it .
and out of this melancholy water arose a forest of tall eastern trees, like a wilderness of dreams .
the waters give up no voice to the heavens .
this, it must be remembered, was in the broad light of day .
like these arabesque censers, my spirit is writhing in fire, and the delirium of this scene is fashioning me for the wilder visions of that land of real dreams whither i am now rapidly departing . ''
having satisfied her curiosity if such it was she dropped the glass, and quietly gave her attention again to the stage; her profile now being turned toward myself, as before .
total annihilation could be no more .
the lips were gently protruded, and rested the one upon the other, after such a fashion that it is impossible to conceive any, even the most complex, combination of human features, conveying so entirely, and so singly, the idea of unmitigated gravity, solemnity and repose .
he had been accustomed, however, to quiet the creature, even in its fiercest moods, by the use of a whip, and to this he now resorted .
but the walks of marie may, in general, be supposed discursive .
it was now midnight, and my task was drawing to a close .
were the automaton life like in its motions, the spectator would be more apt to attribute its operations to their true cause, that is, to human agency within than he is now, when the awkward and rectangular manoeuvres convey the idea of pure and unaided mechanism  . .
but i must first render you all the little attentions in my power . ''
but as the baron listened, or affected to listen, to the gradually increasing uproar in the stables of berlifitzing or perhaps pondered upon some more novel, some more decided act of audacity his eyes became unwittingly rivetted to the figure of an enormous, and unnaturally colored horse, represented in the tapestry as belonging to a saracen ancestor of the family of his rival .
why, otherwise, since it was about dusk, should she make a point of the haste?
the matter stands thus: in the first place your writer of intensities must have very black ink, and a very big pen, with a very blunt nib .
for months i could not rid myself of the phantasm of the cat; and, during this period, there came back into my spirit a half sentiment that seemed, but was not, remorse .
and evil was the hour when she saw, and loved, and wedded the painter .
  ''by the time i had fully completed these arrangements and filled the chamber as explained, it wanted only ten minutes of nine o'clock .
the principle expressed is incontrovertible but there may be something beyond it .
to queries put to him by any other person than myself he seemed utterly insensible although i endeavored to place each member of the company in mesmeric rapport with him .
they are to be found in crebillon   's 'atrée .' ''
in this way it was possible to insert the whole upper part of the bag between the net work and the hoop .
i still lay quietly, and made effort to exercise my reason .
it was the portrait of a young girl just ripening into womanhood .
proprieties of place, and especially of time, are the bugbears which terrify mankind from the contemplation of the magnificent .
 ''a thousand pounds, '' said i  .  ''do you warrant it? '' he asked, turning the nose to the light.
it might have a vapory it might even have a tangible form .
 ''if you please, uncle precisely . ''
convinced myself, i seek not to convince .
had it been possible to adduce fifty instead of five examples of bodies found floating at the end of two or three days, these fifty examples could still have been properly regarded only as exceptions to l  'etoile's rule, until such time as the rule itself should be confuted .
de l 'omelette pressed his hand upon his heart, closed his eyes, raised them, and caught his satanic majesty in a blush .
 ''as soon as the balloon quits the earth, it is subjected to the influence of many circumstances tending to create a difference in its weight; augmenting or diminishing its ascending power .
there are two bodies the rudimental and the complete; corresponding with the two conditions of the worm and the butterfly .
now this is the point .
one seeks to recall the original beauty of the country, by adapting its means to the surrounding scenery; cultivating trees in harmony with the hills or plain of the neighboring land; detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size, proportion and color which, hid from the common observer, are revealed everywhere to the experienced student of nature .
a huge bucket with water stood at one extremity of the room, and a clock of stupendous dimensions at the other .
it was the pursuit, the extension of the idea, which had engendered awe .
it will have been, by that time, totally destroyed, at three different periods, by three successive earthquakes .
yet i must believe that my first mental development had in it much of the uncommon even much of the outre .
i resolved to be guided by the paternal advice .
the diddler is not only surprised but vexed and incensed at the absurd behavior of his dog, and expresses his entire readiness to cancel the obligation at any moment when the evidence of the obligation shall be forthcoming .
the antagonist having taken his seat, the exhibiter approaches the drawer of the box, and takes therefrom the cushion, which, after removing the pipe from the hand of the automaton, he places under its left arm as a support .
the figure, almost all of which the construction of the box permitted to be seen, was somewhat above the medium height, and nearly approached, without positively reaching, the majestic .
occupying the whole southern face of the pentagon was the sole window an immense sheet of unbroken glass from venice a single pane, and tinted of a leaden hue, so that the rays of either the sun or moon, passing through it, fell with a ghastly lustre on the objects within .
his fit, nevertheless, finally subsided as before, and he began to act and speak in a rational way .
my pets, of course, were made to feel the change in my disposition .
this i have long seen, and therefore had thoughts of making you a lawyer .
you saw the locks in question as well as myself .
we looked at the picture which he presented .
he shook with inconceivable agitation, and his eye glanced around in search of a gondola .
when, at length, we had concluded our examination, and the intense excitement of the time had, in some measure, subsided, legrand, who saw that i was dying with impatience for a solution of this most extraordinary riddle, entered into a full detail of all the circumstances connected with it .
 ''what is the meaning of all this, jup? '' i inquired .
for some minutes he remained speechless and motionless, looking incredulously at my friend with open mouth, and eyes that seemed starting from their sockets; then, apparently recovering himself in some measure, he seized a pen, and after several pauses and vacant stares, finally filled up and signed a check for fifty thousand francs, and handed it across the table to dupin .
from what i have already said, you must know that i have had means of information about this matter means of which you could never have dreamed .
the thing was done, and i put money in my purse .
but these principles cannot be extended to the human organization, wherein there is a marked and radical difference in the construction, and, at all events, in the powers, of the right and left arms .
the interior of the main compartment is lined throughout with cloth .
in the meantime every moment threatened to be our last every mountainous billow hurried to overwhelm us .
this i know to be a fact .
the verses, which were entitled  ''the haunted palace, '' ran very nearly, if not accurately, thus: i .
farther than this, little could be ascertained .
there was no servant that was a settled point .
although i thus readily accounted to my reason, if not altogether to my conscience, for the startling fact just detailed, it did not the less fail to make a deep impression upon my fancy .
neither could i forget what i had read of these pits that the sudden extinction of life formed no part of their most horrible plan .
one player holds in his hand a number of these toys, and demands of another whether that number is even or odd .
it appears that about a hundred years before mr   . ellison 's coming of age, there had died, in a remote province, one mr. seabright ellison.
but even here there was very little upon which to base a conjecture .
he would have used this, but for its volution about the corpse, the hitch which embarrassed it, and the reflection that it had not been   'torn off' from the garment .
to their excellencies von underduk and rub a dub, president and vice president of the states ' college of astronomers, in the city of rotterdam .
there was nothing in this, however, to make him sob .
he is fond of enigmas, of conundrums, of hieroglyphics; exhibiting in his solutions of each a degree of acumen which appears to the ordinary apprehension præternatural .
the moon could not be seen at all, being nearly in my zenith .
interest: your diddler is guided by self interest .
here mr  . crab again  ''made great eyes, '' as we say in germany, but at length, recovering himself from a profound attack of astonishment, he assured me that he employed the words  ''thomas hawk '' to avoid the colloquialism, tommy, which was low but that the true idea was tommy hawk or tomahawk and that by  ''playing tomahawk '' he referred to scalping, brow beating and otherwise using up the herd of poor devil authors.
having rapidly taken notice of all this, i resumed the narrative of sir launcelot, which thus proceeded:  ''and now, the champion, having escaped from the terrible fury of the dragon, bethinking himself of the brazen shield, and of the breaking up of the enchantment which was upon it, removed the carcass from out of the way before him, and approached valorously over the silver pavement of the castle to where the shield was upon the wall; which in sooth tarried not for his full coming, but feel down at his feet upon the silver floor, with a mighty great and terrible ringing sound . ''
it was quite dirty, you remember .
it was seen that, even at three per cent  ., the annual income of the inheritance amounted to no less than thirteen millions and five hundred thousand dollars; which was one million and one hundred and twenty five thousand per month; or thirty six thousand nine hundred and eighty six per day; or one thousand five hundred and forty one per hour; or six and twenty dollars for every minute that flew.
there have been other  ''voyages to the moon, '' but none of higher merit than the one just mentioned .
presently a window opens, and somebody pitches you a sixpence, with a request to  ''hush up and go on, '' etc .
the stowage was clumsily done, and the vessel consequently crank .
when he came to himself, we addressed ourselves again to an investigation of m  . valdemar 's condition.
captain smitherton says that yesterday was sunday: so it was; he is right .
he did every thing i wished, and i found, upon getting up, that i could easily pass my head and neck through the aperture .
upon the first discovery of the corpse, it was not supposed that the murderer would be able to elude, for more than a very brief period, the inquisition which was immediately set on foot .
i determined to hazard a few words of conversation .
the body was quite warm .
turning to the passage specified, he read it with great care to himself, then closed the book, and desired me, in my character of confidential acquaintance, to express to the baron von jung his exalted sense of his chivalrous behavior, and, in that of second, to assure him that the explanation offered was of the fullest, the most honorable, and the most unequivocally satisfactory nature .
as we rode up to the gate way, i perceived it slightly open, and the visage of a man peering through .
as i arose from the attempt, the mystery of the alteration in the chamber broke at once upon my understanding .
how had i deserved to be so blessed by such confessions?
but, then, the radicalness of these differences, which was excessive; the dirt; the soiled and torn condition of the paper, so inconsistent with the true methodical habits of d , and so suggestive of a design to delude the beholder into an idea of the worthlessness of the document; these things, together with the hyper obtrusive situation of this document, full in the view of every visiter, and thus exactly in accordance with the conclusions to which i had previously arrived; these things, i say, were strongly corroborative of suspicion, in one who came with the intention to suspect .
men toiled at the grave in which i lay darkling .
the arms altogether were admirably modelled .
this gentlemen had amassed a princely fortune, and, having no very immediate connexions, conceived the whim of suffering his wealth to accumulate for a century after his decease .
it was clear to me that the letter had been turned, as a glove, inside out, re directed, and re sealed .
my balloon was soon completed .
nevertheless is he confirmed in his instinctive opinions, by the concurrence of all his compeers .
i had been looking steadily at the top of this hogshead for some minutes, and what now caused me surprise was the fact that i had not sooner perceived the object thereupon .
having gone as far as possible in this direction, a sudden turn was made to the left, and the vehicle was driven at right angles to its former course, and still closely along the edge of the table .
it is needless to say that a very short time sufficed us to lose sight of the coast .
he then bowed and departed .
astounding news by express, via norfolk the atlantic crossed in three days signal triumph of mr        . monck mason   's flying machine arrival at sullivan's island, near charlestown, s.c., of mr. mason, mr. robert holland, mr. henson, mr. harrison ainsworth, and four others, in the steering balloon,  ''victoria, '' after a passage of seventy five hours from land to land full particulars of the voyage the subjoined jeu d'esprit with the preceding heading in magnificent capitals, well interspersed with notes of admiration, was originally published, as matter of fact, in the  ''new york sun, '' a daily newspaper, and therein fully subserved the purpose of creating indigestible aliment for the quidnuncs during the few hours intervening between a couple of the charleston mails.
that is the orontes, and it is the only water in sight, with the exception of the mediterranean, which stretches, like a broad mirror, about twelve miles off to the southward .
this derivative, to say the truth, is still countenanced by some traces of the electric fluid evident on the summit of the steeple of the house of the town council .
we perceived the effect of this manoeuvre immediately, in a vastly increased rate of progress; and, as the gale freshened, we flew with a velocity nearly inconceivable; the guide rope flying out behind the car, like a streamer from a vessel .
 ''wonderful genius '' said the quarterly .
he bowed as i presented it; then, with a grave countenance, motioned me to a seat .
i can scarcely say why .
the bodies of fat and fleshy persons, with small bones, and of women generally, are lighter than those of the lean and large boned, and of men; and the specific gravity of the water of a river is somewhat influenced by the presence of the tide from sea .
these were the words upon whose mystical meaning i had so long pondered, rejecting the explanations of the priesthood, until death himself resolved for me the secret .
my immediate purpose is to lead you to place in juxtaposition, that very unusual activity of which i have just spoken with that very peculiar shrill or harsh and unequal voice, about whose nationality no two persons could be found to agree, and in whose utterance no syllabification could be detected . ''
my own impressions i would not pretend to render intelligible to the reader .
 ''i now replaced the nail and regarded it attentively .
in death we have both learned the propensity of man to define the indefinable .
i soon found him of weak intellect, and, of course, marked him as a fitting subject for my skill .
we are below the river 's bed .
and in the direction or concentration of this effort or, more properly, in its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it on earth he perceived that he should be employing the best means laboring to the greatest advantage in the fulfilment, not only of his own destiny as poet, but of the august purposes for which the deity had implanted the poetic sentiment in man .
interruptions are annoying and should undoubtedly be abolished don 't you think so? no reply, i beg you, one person is enough to be speaking at a time .
when we flatter ourselves that we have formed its conception, we have merely deceived our understanding by the consideration of infinitely rarified matter .
it was also evident that, by exertion of a very unusual degree of activity and courage, an entrance into the window, from the rod, might have been thus effected .
any mechanical arrangement which would cause the figure to move, in any given manner, the left arm could, if reversed, cause it to move, in the same manner, the right .
for what really occurred, however, it is quite impossible that any human being could have been prepared .
but you forget that the matter of which i speak is, in all respects, the very  ''mind '' or  ''spirit '' of the schools, so far as regards its high capacities, and is, moreover, the  ''matter '' of these schools at the same time .
 ''d , i presume, is not altogether a fool, and, if not, must have anticipated these waylayings, as a matter of course . ''
 ''name it, my beloved, my eugenie, my own name it but, alas it is already yielded ere named . ''
the prefect was fond of the cant of diplomacy .
but i am ambitious of signalizing my abdication of the literary sceptre by some important bequest to posterity; and, perhaps, i cannot do a better thing than just pen for it an account of my earlier career .
this path was excessively sinuous, and as the sun could not be seen, i soon lost all idea of the direction in which i journeyed .
what i wrote it is unnecessary to say .
this was unreasonable, and i told him so in a speech of some length .
it was about five months after this return home, that her friends were alarmed by her sudden disappearance for the second time .
in this progress, i took notice that no sight of the out houses could be obtained .
spoke to day the magnetic cutter in charge of the middle section of floating telegraph wires .
i am not now writing a treatise, but simply prefacing a somewhat peculiar narrative by observations very much at random; i will, therefore, take occasion to assert that the higher powers of the reflective intellect are more decidedly and more usefully tasked by the unostentatious game of draughts than by all the elaborate frivolity of chess .
the sentence in question has but one meaning, as it stands; and this meaning i have fairly stated: but it is material that we go behind the mere words, for an idea which these words have obviously intended, and failed to convey .
to clear my ideas on this topic i felt in my pocket for my snuff box, but, upon getting it, and endeavoring to apply a pinch of its grateful contents in the ordinary manner, i became immediately aware of my peculiar deficiency, and threw the box at once down to my head .
i forced the last stone into its position; i plastered it up .
from the latter from the data the second step of the question, dependent thereupon, inevitably follows .
the interior of the figure, as seen through these apertures, appears to be crowded with machinery .
first of all i dismembered the corpse .
this person introduced, or at all events propagated what was termed the deductive or a priori mode of investigation .
suddenly there shot along the path a wild light, and i turned to see whence a gleam so unusual could have issued; for the vast house and its shadows were alone behind me .
business is business, and should be done in a business way .
you will observe that, for this reason, the mystery has been considered easy, when, for this reason, it should have been considered difficult, of solution .
besides, upon the back of the trinket you may discover, perhaps, the very information you seem to desire .
there was an epoch in the course of the general sentiment when the comet had attained, at length, a size surpassing that of any previously recorded visitation .
a light birch canoe that lay placidly on the water, was reflected in its minutest fibres with a fidelity unsurpassed by the most exquisitely polished mirror .
now the thing stands thus .
the room in which i found myself was very large and lofty .
one word more on this topic and i will be done boring you .
so blended bank and shadow there that each seemed pendulous in air so mirror like was the glassy water, that it was scarcely possible to say at what point upon the slope of the emerald turf its crystal dominion began .
few italians have the true virtuoso spirit .
it occasionally happens, however, that the concerto yells are succeeded by a simultaneous effort at breaking loose, when, of course, some little danger is to be apprehended . ''
her small, bare, and silvery feet gleamed in the black mirror of marble beneath her .
that the body was found without weight is also corroborative of the idea .
besides, there were two voices heard in contention, and one of them was unquestionably the voice of a frenchman . ''
these latter did not extend to the floor, but were much longer and narrower than usual they had single shutters like doors the panes were of lozenge form, but quite large .
i positively felt a wish to explore its depths, even at the sacrifice i was going to make; and my principal grief was that i should never be able to tell my old companions on shore about the mysteries i should see .
with that thought i rolled my eves nervously around on the barriers of iron that hemmed me in .
i fear you have mesmerized '' adding immediately afterwards,  ''deferred it too long . ''
an unnatural excess of oxygen would result, it had been ascertained in just such an elevation of the animal spirits as we had latterly experienced .
but i was sorely put out by the absence of all else of the body to my imagined instrument of the text for my context . ''
by the learned in what might be termed theological morality they will be readily conceived, and by the unlearned they would, at all events, be little understood .
may god grant that we succeed i ask not success for mere safety to my insignificant person, but for the sake of human knowledge and for the vastness of the triumph .
in short, we are madly erring, through self esteem, in believing man, in either his temporal or future destinies, to be of more moment in the universe than that vast  ''clod of the valley '' which he tills and contemns, and to which he denies a soul for no more profound reason than that he does not behold it in operation .
of late years however, an anonymous writer, by a course of reasoning exceedingly unphilosophical, has contrived to blunder upon a plausible solution although we cannot consider it altogether the true one .
but i need not vex you with impertinent details .
they had devoured, in spite of all my efforts to prevent them, all but a small remnant of the contents of the dish .
still talbot would not return .
my head ached, and i fancied a ringing in my ears: but still they sat and still chatted .
various and eventful, however, had been the peregrinations of the worthy couple in and about the different tap houses of the neighbourhood during the earlier hours of the night .
 ''i take it for granted that she is not particularly not dangerously affected, eh? ''  ''mon dieu what is it you imagine?
then we had the   'confessions of an opium eater' fine, very fine glorious imagination deep philosophy acute speculation plenty of fire and fury, and a good spicing of the decidedly unintelligible .
i say  ''at will; '' for the question is of will, and not, as the insanity of logic has assumed, of power .
whatever doubt may still envelop the rationale of mesmerism, its startling facts are now almost universally admitted .
his discourse was addressed to myself; but his voice, although by no means loud, had that intonation which is commonly employed in speaking to some one at a great distance .
he was then seemingly dead; but he sat nearly erect within his coffin, the lid of which, in his furious struggles, he had partially uplifted .
in going out, she gave notice to a monsieur jacques st  . eustache, and to him only, of her intent intention to spend the day with an aunt who resided in the rue des drômes.
the disturbances were the preparations for his subsequently conceived deathful condition .
for many hours the immediate vicinity of the low framework upon which i lay, had been literally swarming with rats .
  ''i have sinned c'est vrai but, my good sir, consider you have no actual intention of putting such such barbarous threats into execution . ''
now here, i conceive, is a positive paradox .
pompey arose, and said no word .
you mos not trink it so strong you mos put te water in te wine .
rushing to the corpse, i saw distinctly saw a tremor upon the lips .
in this excursion i was attended by one negro servant, pompey, and my little lap dog diana, whom i had brought with me from philadelphia .
 ''there is another point at which there seems a deficiency of observation on the part of le commerciel .
i followed the windings of this pass with much interest .
the pretended lunatic was a man in my own pay . ''
this was said in a low, fluctuating tone, and with every sign of the most profound veneration .
twice again it swung, and a sharp sense of pain shot through every nerve .
d rushed to a casement, threw it open, and looked out .
his stature was gaunt and tall, and legs was confounded to behold in him a figure more emaciated than himself .
all this done, and your diddler grins .
say don  't you think so? perfect despera a ado great pity, 'pon my honor wonderfully inventive age pro o odigies of valor by the by, did you ever hear about captain ma a a a n? ''  ''captain mann be d d '' said i;  ''please to go on with your story . ''
a burning thirst consumed me, and i emptied the vessel at a draught .
but it is preposterous to descant upon such absurdity although     'oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, has the unparalleled effrontery to suppose that we will not only 'insert' his ignorant ravings, but absolutely pay for them  ''now this is fine it is rich and we have half a mind to punish this young scribbler for his egotism, by really publishing his effusion, verbatim et literatim, as he has written it .
at length, for the third or fourth time, they descended into the cellar .
if, in addition to the point of general size and contour, he had found upon the arm a peculiar hairy appearance which he had observed upon the living marie, his opinion might have been justly strengthened; and the increase of positiveness might well have been in the ratio of the peculiarity, or unusualness, of the hairy mark .
this prison like rampart formed the limit of our domain; beyond it we saw but thrice a week once every saturday afternoon, when, attended by two ushers, we were permitted to take brief walks in a body through some of the neighbouring fields and twice during sunday, when we were paraded in the same formal manner to the morning and evening service in the one church of the village .
you never saw a more brilliant metallic lustre than the scales emit but of this you cannot judge till tomorrow .
credit was good, employment was never wanting, and on all hands there was no lack of either money or good will .
 ''it is now high time that i should explain to your excellencies the object of my perilous voyage .
next morning it appeared as follows:  'we quote from  ''the tea pot '' of yesterday the subjoined paragraph:  ''oh, yes oh, we perceive oh, no doubt oh, my oh, goodness oh, tempora oh, moses '' why, the fellow is all o that accounts for his reasoning in a circle, and explains why there is neither beginning nor end to him, nor to anything he says .
the chimerical aspect of their terror was gone .
finally, by dint of great perseverance, they traced him to a garret in an old house of seven stories, in an alley called flatzplatz, and, coming upon him suddenly, found him, as they imagined, in the midst of his counterfeiting operations .
in reading the above sentence a curious apothegm of an old weather beaten dutch navigator comes full upon my recollection .
against the new masonry i re erected the old rampart of bones .
i at length felt that i was free .
the whole project was thus a complete failure .
i practised for some time by the borders of a well frequented marsh; herein, however, having no reference to a similar proceeding of demosthenes, but from a design peculiarly and conscientiously my own .
it conveyed to my soul the idea of revolution perhaps from its association in fancy with the burr of a mill wheel .
 ''great man '' said bentley .
his ordinary occupations were neglected or forgotten .
and then the music ceased, as i have told; and the evolutions of the waltzers were quieted; and there was an uneasy cessation of all things as before .
but when the echoes had fully ceased, a light laughter at once pervaded the assembly; the musicians looked at each other and smiled as if at their own nervousness and folly, and made whispering vows, each to the other, that the next chiming of the clock should produce in them no similar emotion; and then, after the lapse of sixty minutes, which embrace three thousand and six hundred seconds of the time that flies, there came yet another chiming of the clock, and then were the same disconcert and tremulousness and meditation as before .
some particulars of the descent were communicated, however, by mr   . ainsworth to mr. forsyth.
we examined the moss between the bricks, and found it undisturbed . ''
some five or six volumes, just from the hands of the binder, we carefully probed, longitudinally, with the needles . ''
it was then seven o 'clock on saturday evening .
he then took the book himself, and read me a chapter aloud .
  ''adolphe le bon, clerk to mignaud et fils, deposes that on the day in question, about noon, he accompanied madame l'espanaye to her residence with the francs, put up in two bags .
but of the character of his remarks at the periods in question an example will best convey the idea .
he notes every variation of face as the play progresses, gathering a fund of thought from the differences in the expression of certainty, of surprise, of triumph, or of chagrin .
the rays of the newly risen sun poured in upon the whole, through windows, formed each of a single pane of crimson tinted glass .
to the north on the craggy precipice a few paces from the verge up sprang the magnificent trunks of numerous hickories, black walnuts, and chestnuts, interspersed with occasional oak, and the strong lateral branches thrown out by the walnuts especially, spread far over the edge of the cliff .
the frauds of the banks of course i couldn 't help .
he was attired, as i had expected, in a costume altogether similar to my own; wearing a spanish cloak of blue velvet, begirt about the waist with a crimson belt sustaining a rapier .
but then there is the tone laconic, or curt, which has lately come much into use .
the modes and sources of this kind of error are well typified in the contemplation of the heavenly bodies .
almighty god no, no they heard they suspected they knew they were making a mockery of my horror this i thought, and this i think .
i hope you have not been so foolish as to take offence at any little brusquerie of mine; but no, that is improbable .
because there were some considerations of deep interest beyond .
before going in we walked up the street, turned down an alley, and then, again turning, passed in the rear of the building dupin, meanwhile examining the whole neighborhood, as well as the house, with a minuteness of attention for which i could see no possible object .
but these and other difficulties attending respiration, as they were by no means so great as to put me in peril of my life, i determined to endure as i best could, in consideration of my leaving them behind me momently in my approach to the denser strata near the moon .
i could have fancied, while i looked at it, that some eminent landscape painter had built it with his brush .
the lids clenched themselves together as if in a spasm .
mais il faut agir that is to say, a frenchman never faints outright .
for an item of news like this, it strikes us it was very coolly received . ''
